In the Cabinet, my colleagues Arun Jaitley, Giriraj Singh, Shiv Pratap Shukla, Pon Radhakrishnan ji, other supporters, from the banking sector, financial institutions, all the greatness of business and business world, all the present dignitaries and all over the country Small entrepreneurs associated with, Ladies and gentlemen!In this event dedicated to the small scale industries of the country, I extend my heartfelt welcome to all of you and the entrepreneurs of other parts of the country.First of all, wish you all the best wishes of Deepawali and new yearly new year. We all know that the significance of Diwali and New Year is ours. Now the world is spreading. Especially for our business brothers and sisters, who open the new account on this day with hope that Deepawali's omen will be good, it will be good for the whole year.Apart from this, this time is also important because in the same period agriculture and agri-products, grains grown by our farmers, form part of the market. This time, the purchase-purchase, the next year's market, also decides the growth of the country.That's why Deepawali's time is as important for the country as it happens during the budget. The decisions taken during this time have a big impact on our future.Today, in this special event, I want to talk to you in detail about the 12 big decisions taken by the government for the small scale industry sector. For the last few weeks, many Indian government ministries were involved in reaching these decisions. In the last few days, applied a lot of decisions on a small scale also saw a trial run. All reviews, after all the investigation, now that opportunity has come today when I want to tell the country about these 12 historical decisions.Companions, these 12 decisions are also evidence that when Collective Initiative is broken, after collecting Silos, Collective Responsibility is played, if Collective Decision is taken, then how much impact it has on its level.In silos, all your dreams are left in the files. But when silos breaks, files get speed too, the officers themselves take files, go ahead and make sure to make decisions.These 12 decisions are a huge gift from Deepawali for the country's MSME, ie, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises  , a new era of small industries in the country, a new chapter is also going to start.Brothers and Sisters, before drawing the template for the future, I would like to discuss the past and the present also. This is also important because the past who called us the glory, the present should encourage us, the present should encourage us.Companions, we well know that MSME or small industries are a means of livelihood of millions of people in our country, play an important role in the economy. These MSMEs are the second largest sector after agriculture. Farming is the backbone of India's economy, then MSMEs are strong steps, which work to accelerate the country's progress.Small industries have been contributing their contribution to such a number of areas, from embroidery to weaning, from farmland to playground, from clothing to weapon, from wool to energy.• Kanchipuram sari or panipat handloom,• Hooda of Ludhiana or bronze of Muralabad• Banaras saree or locals of Aligarh,• The auto industry of Jamshedpur and Pune, be it the chemical industry of Bharuch or the electric pump of Coimbatore,• Jodhpur, Handicrafts of Kishangarh and Stone Industry,• Paintings of Madhubani or Meerut's Sports Industry• It extends from east to west, from north to south.These are not just industry for us, but our heritage, our tradition, are an important part of our lives. How many cities are identified due to the small scale industries that run here.If I say that one particular identity is associated with every district of the country, it will probably not be wrong. All of these are managed by small industries only.Keeping this legacy our small industries have strengthened themselves over time and strengthened India's economy.Peers, today India is shining as a bright spot in the Global Economy. The eyes of the whole world are on India, the new India is at the center of global business discussion. A new India which has the power to prove the resolution, in which it has the power to fulfill the aspirations of 130 million citizens.The credit for bringing India to this height, the credit of giving new energy to the country is our MSME sector, which means you all go too. This is the hard work and happiness of the people, due to which India has become the Economic Powerhouse today.You are his biggest partner in the past four or four years in India. You have made great efforts towards formalization, have adapted digital transactions, have aligned with new arrangements like e-commerce, you have adopted such a large tax reform of the country like GST. You are also competing with the global market with great wisdom and bravery.Due to these changes in the country, today India is heading towards leading the fourth industrial revolution. We are about to enter a new era, enter new era. All this is happening because you, the country's MSME sector has added itself to these changes, made them part of their system.For the sake of encouraging your courage, the government is also moving forward with you on your shoulders.Due to the many reforms and decisions taken in the country, making business in India has become very easy today. Just two days ago, the World Bank's Easy to Doing Business Ranking is its witness. On which 4 years ago no one could believe that today, India has shown that we have done it.Companions, it is a matter of pride for all of us that this time India has made a long jump of 23rd rank in the Ease of Doing Business Ranking. Just four years ago, before we formed this government, we were in 142nd place. Today, I am happy that we have reached 65th position in the 77th position and I believe that as the State Government, the Central Government is going to take one step after the other all our departments. I do not think that now the top 50 is far from our reach.Ease of Doing Business increases the simplicity and convenience, so the highest benefit of our MSME sector is available. Whether there is a construction permit, availability of electricity or other clearance, it is always a big challenge for our small scale industries. By working on improving the rules, at the ground level, we have now been working to make the industry's way easier for MSMEs.In addition, in the last four-and-a-four years, the comprehensive changes in policies and decisions, keeping this sector in mind, has given a new force to the MSME sector.Colleagues,For small industry and strong, some things are very important for this. I divide them into different categories.A -  You get easy money, get loans, get loans at affordable rates and keep cash flowB -  You get market, increase your stake on platforms like e-commerceC–Technology Upgradation होD- Ease of Doing Business, Government interference is lessAnd  the sense of security in E- EmployeesI will talk to you about one by one in detail.The  categories first   come in " A" - that means you get easy money, get loans. Meet the banks without obtaining bills, get at cheaper rates and keep your cash flow.This is your first requirement for any business. I believe many people start by putting their own capital too, but to expand the business, you have to take a loan. Your bank fulfills your requirement.But what is its ground reality? Small entrepreneurs, whose annual turnover lasts between 20 lakh and 5 million rupees, they have difficulty in taking loans. Due to the size of the balance sheet, they are often delayed in getting loans, and there is no sufficient amount of credit.From the above, the big companies, which are supplied goods to large industries, also accept the bill from there, delay in payment deepens their crisis. Its direct impact falls on your cash bicycle and in a way the whole business is in crisis.To overcome this problem, I  am going to announce today's  first , and that is - the nationwide launch of the 59-minute loan portal. That is, the longer you come to the office from the house in the morning, or the time you spend in the morning to get your book-account, in the same time you will get theoretical approval of a loan of up to a crore rupees.Companions, some time ago an attempt was launched in the direction of Jaitley. At that time, I told the officials that you are starting it as a trial, but you can reach the target as I will give you?Brothers and Sisters, our independence has been 72 years this year. I told him that, on the day when this portal will be implemented across the country, will you be able to sanction loans to 72 thousand small entrepreneurs?Colleagues, at the moment, when I am talking to you, at the time the counter that is showing, what the clock is looking like is telling how many MSME entrepreneurs have so far borrowed through this portal Approved or has been renewed. You can constantly see how this number is changing.Far from here, your entrepreneur, brother or sister sitting in any corner of the country, in just 59 minutes, a loan of up to Rs one crore is being sanctioned even now.Yeah, just 59 minutes. Just 59 minutes. And I did not intentionally keep an hour, or else one of two two's did not look long and therefore the caps put 59 minutes.brothers and sisters. These work could have been done in previous governments. But the most important thing is that the reputation of honesty is essential. Our government, on the basis of Minimum Government Maximum Governance, is working on every step to emancipate you from the rule of law.I remember, when I was talking about this portal from the officers, I said that the information of the turnover of the entrepreneurs is in your GST Return, income information is also in Tax Return, Cash Flow is also in the bank account, Then, by adding all these, why can not the bank give you the loan by the bank itself?I had also said that this facility should be spread more and be linked to every where, where our small business related businessmen go. Such as GST Portal.Why the honest taxpayer, honest entrepreneur who joins this portal, can find it difficult to get a loan? Therefore, when you file your return on the GST portal, you will also get this facility. As soon as you go to the portal, you will be asked if you want a loan? If you do yes, you will get the convenience of a 59-minute loan portal.Companions, our efforts are that every government entrepreneur, every MSME, has reached the door of the government itself.Today, I am glad that keeping all these things in mind, now I dedicate this to you for the loan acceptance in 59 minutes and the benefit of this has begun to meet the small entrepreneurs of every region of the country from today.This is a new India, it's time to go round the bank repeatedly.Colleagues,Now I come, on today's  second announcement  .You got theoretical approval of loan in 59 minutes, but it is also important that at what rate interest is being received.Now I will listen to what I am going to say, listen carefully.Brothers and sisters, now it has been decided that  GST  registered every  MSME  will be allowed 2 percent interest on new debt or incremental loan amount up to Rs one crore.I have talked about the honesty of your honesty. This is the extension of the same. Now  GST  join and  Tax  Brnaapakitaktbnega you of terrible discount of 2 percent in interest.Not only this, Deepawali Gift is ready for exporters too. The  government has also decided to increase the rate of interest in the pre -shipment and  post  -  lending period, which  has been increased from 3% to 5% .Brothers and Sisters, MSME has a huge contribution in the country's exports. You handle about 40 percent of the country's total exports. You have got the benefit of India's increased credentials, the exporters of MSME, and decided to give a discount in interest rate.I hope this move will increase the share of MSME Exporters.Companions, so far, announcements will be easier and easier to get loans, banks will have less chances and loans will be available at lower interest rates.But I also want that due to the great compulsion that you often have to take a loan, that too will be reduced.I know that the MSMEs supply goods to large companies, it is too late to get the bill approved. Many times you have to wait months for your own money. In this case, you have to take a loan to keep the business running.My today's  third announcement  is related to this. All the companies whose turnover is above Rs 500 crores are now required to be brought on Trade Receivables e-Discounting System (TReDS) platform, so that MSMEs do not have problems in cash flow.As many of you may know that TReDS is such a platform, which has some MSME's, there are some PSUs of the government, there are also banks and there are some companies in the country whose small scale industries supply their goods.Now the government is expanding it further. All PSUs of the government have been instructed to come to TReDS and encourage industries related to them to be brought to TReDS.Now, I would like to tell you what would be the benefit of joining TReDS of Turnover companies of more than 500 crores.Suppose that this is a big company, he has made some purchase of 10 lakh rupees from a small entrepreneur. The entrepreneur also has a confirmed receipt of supply order and also the supply. But for some reason, when a large company does not pay, my small businessman is trapped. For that, 10 lakh rupees is a big deal.In such a way the small trader will help the TReDS platform. He can upload a confirmation receipt or bill from that large company on this platform. Based on this bill, he can say that within a month or two months or three months, within, within me, I will get so much money from that big company.Upon the bills of a large company, on the basis of the borrower's company's bills, the bank will also believe in that bill and on that basis, the merchant will get the appropriate amount from the bank. Later, when money comes from the company, the bank will keep that money with it and its business will continue.Companions, the biggest benefit of this is that your money is rotated, whatever you have to invest in your business, you will not be short of it, your money will not fall, your cash cycling will not break.However, on this occasion, on this occasion, with this announcement, I will also request to big companies that the bill related to small scale industries should be accepted early and their payment should not be delayed.brothers and sisters,However, if payment is delayed, then another option has been prepared for you. Small Enterprises can register their grievances in the MSME Ministry's portal, which will be resolved in a time-bound government intervention. These big companies will also motivate them to make payments over time.Companions, loans are easily available, interest is low, MSME exporters also get the benefit of relaxation of interest, cash cycle remains, it is in our government's priorities. My first three announcements are in this direction.Now I come to the  category  " B"  . And this is for you, the creation of new markets for the country's MSME sector.On this front, the government has taken several steps and I am going to announce some important decisions today.Brothers and Sisters, in the last year, about 1,14,000 crore rupees were bought by government companies from different sources. The rules that were coming so far were that it was necessary that government companies have to make 20 percent of the purchase from micro and small enterprises i.e. micro and small scale industries.My fourth declaration today is   related to this. The government has decided to increase this compulsory requirement of 20 percent to 25 percent now. That is, now the amount of money that the government companies buy, the share of Micro and Small Enterprises is going to increase further.This is another important step forward and today's  fifth  declaration is related to women entrepreneurs. These micro and small enterprises, which have been enhanced by the necessity of purchase, have also been decided that 3% of the total purchase from it, reserved for women entrepreneurs. That is, now it has become necessary for the public sector companies to buy at least 3% of their purchases from women entrepreneurs.I think that today's decision will strengthen women entrepreneurship in the country.The government has developed another platform to provide market for partners, MSME, GeM i.e. Government E-marketplace. When it started two-and-a-half years ago, a great motive was to bring transparency in procuring government goods.The MSME sector is also getting the direct benefit of this transparency. Because of GeM, it has been easy to reach the products of small entrepreneurs to government buyers. I still remember the lady of Tamil Nadu who had sold a small thermos to the Prime Minister's Office and was paid on time. Not knowing how many micro and small entrepreneurs have given this new opportunity to the portal, their life has given new inspiration. Otherwise, no one could have imagined that he would also get a tick in front of large-scale supply companies, he would also sell his belongings to the government. No. But all this is possible by the GeM portal.So far, over 1.5 lakh suppliers have been added to the GeM portal, which has 40 thousand MSMEs. Under this, 9 lakh orders have been given so far and about 14 thousand crore rupees have been traded.Think, how many entrepreneurs have got the benefit of it, without any middlemen, commissioned without anybody, given a share of their earnings.To strengthen the system of GeM, brothers and sisters, today the central government has made an important decision. This is my sixth announcement today   , your sixth Deepawali gift.Companions, now all the central government companies have been required to subscribe to GeM. Not only this, they will also register all their vendors-MSMEs on this platform, which will make MSMEs more profitable in their purchase. Now with today's decision, he will be more expansive.Companions, this time of today is of computerization and technology, e-commerce and online marketing. The more they join the small industry, the more they will benefit.Just like GeM, the e-commerce platform requires the manufacture of goods made on other platforms, quality certification is also required. The Government is working with various Certification Agencies for this certification, your clusters, and you can get it near your factory.We are also doing this model of Aggregator to connect small industries with private sector companies.Companions, now I go to   category " C"  . Apart from the Capital and Market, a major challenge has been in front of our small industries of Technological Upgradation. Many of our small enterprises have no time to get the benefit of modern technology.The tools that are currently in the country are helping you in designing and improving product design. In these tool rooms, you can also create high technology products, whose machines are not available to you.The government has also emphasized on improving the condition of these toolrooms over the past four years. Through these toolrooms, in the last four years of the previous government where three and a half million people were trained, during our government, more than six and half million people have been trained.My today's  seventh  announcement is linked to this important topic of Technological Up gradation.Brothers and Sisters, the government has decided that this system of toolroom should be expanded further across the country. For this, 20 hubs will be built across the country and 100 such words like Tool Room will be installed across the country. I today announce a package of 6 thousand crores for this important work  .From better designs, in many cases such as quality, training and consultancy, MSME will have a lot of benefits.After the Technological Upgradation, brothers and sisters, I will now go to  category  "D"  and that is - Easy to Doing Business.Many of you work in entrepreneur Pharma sector. You also make medicines, they export them. Our small companies are making important medicines for life, making very prestigious medicines. These small companies also have immense talent, but they have to sell their workshops often through large companies.My eighth announcement today is   linked to these pharma companies. MSME sector pharma companies have the ability to do business, they can reach customers directly, now the decision to make a cluster has been taken. I also declare to spend 70% on these clusters by the Central Government. Today's decision of the government will also prove to be crucial for increasing production in Pharma sector.Companions, you might have experienced that since many times I have used technology, GST, online portal, Formalization, TReDS, GeM, Portal, since these discussions have started. In fact, these are the arrangements which will give you salvation from the traps of processes.GST has organized the economy, has formalized. This makes it easy to connect business with new technology to Big Data Analytics. This analysis of data will improve further in Ease of Doing Business, and it will help you to get the facilities to your doorstep.I believe that this is going to be the foundation of New India's new Business Environment and it is encouraging honesty.In connection with easing government procedures for associates, MSMEs,  I am going to announce today's new  announcement . You have to give less form and returns, you have to make a big decision. 8 The return given under labor laws and 10 central rules will now only give you once in a year instead of two times.The government is constantly working to reduce the human intervention, to make the system transparent. And now, in relation to IT, Arun ji also mentioned this. This is my  10th declaration  today.To get rid of unnecessary scrutiny, the government has decided that where the inspector has to go now, which factory has to go to. It will be decided only by a computerized Random Allotment, and not only did he visit a factory. Then came again and then waited for a week that he comes or does not come. And they will have to put their report in the 48 hours on the portal. Now he can not go anywhere with his own pleasure.This decision will prove very important in giving relief to brothers and sisters, small industries from the inspector rule. Now no inspector will come here like you, you will be asked why you went to that factory, what was the purpose?The brothers and sisters, the government trusts you, trusts the citizens of your country. In the last 4 years, our government has finished the affidavit in many places, finished interviewing in many categories of government jobs, self certification done.Now today I am going to announce a major reform related to environmental laws for small industries. That is, this is your 11th Deepawali gift and my  11th declaration. This declaration is also directly related to mutual trust between you and the government. This is the 11th declaration, facilitating the simplification of environmental clearance and self-certification.Companions, all of you know that to set up an enterprise so far, it is necessary to cross the two halves of Environmental Clearance and Consent to Establish. The government has decided that by consolidating both these for MSMEs under air pollution and water pollution laws, now only one Consent will be mandatory.The government will accept your returns on self-certification by relying on you. Routine Inspection of the Environment will be finished as Labor Department and only 10 percent of the MSMEs will be inspected.It has also been decided by the government to increase the number of enterprises in the Green and White category. Regardless of whether I talk about the tool room or talk about self-certification, and you started a word from my mouth initially from Red Fort, I would have heard it would be zero defect zero effect. We will do such a thing which can not remove any defect in the world market. We will be manufacturing in such a way that we will zero effect on the environment. We are moving about this mantra.The Government believes that on the general public, you can only protect the environment more effectively by relying on all entrepreneurs. Due to this belief, public participation in the country is increasing and its result is also seen on the increase in the country's forest cover.The colleagues, the government is constantly ensuring that legal procedures are simpler, so that you are equally comfortable in doing business.Tomorrow, the government has taken another major decision in this direction. This decision is my 12th declaration today  , 12th declaration  . The government has made a huge difference in the company act, giving respite to the MSMEs from legal complications.Brothers and Sisters, there were such provisions in the Companies Act so far, there were such laws related to them, due to which minor minor mistakes or unintentional violations were considered criminal, criminal. Due to these minor mistakes many times the merchants used to go to jail. To improve the smallest mistake, you had to beat the court court.In all this, both your precious time and money would have been in vain; your honor was also deeply hurt. Small and medium enterprises had a lot of trouble because of this.I am happy to tell all of you that the government has brought a state of good governance to get rid of these nephews. We have issued the Ordinance.The rules which were going on till now, the system was changed, the government has changed it. Now you will not have to go to court to improve the minor mistakes.Now for the small violation, you can improve all those mistakes by going to the relevant department and through a few simple procedures. Another advantage of this is that more than 60 percent of cases which are running in different special courts will now come out from there. I have been told that the number of such cases is not in tens of thousands. Because of this, many of the NCLT-National Company Law Tribunal will run in the rights of all the regional directors. If this happens then the case hearing will get faster. The brothers and sisters, the government has also given relief to small industries and a person's rights company. Many penalties were applied on many subjects before, it has been reduced to half now. Companions, now I   grow to the category  "E" . Among these big decisions and efforts of the government, we have to keep in mind that MSMEs are our artisan, our workers, our workers All of these social security is very important. Therefore, the government is also decided that artisans who work in this sector is running a campaign across the country to be linked to the government's social security schemes. Government will ensure that the Jan Dhan accounts to workers in MSME which their prime security insurance plan and Prime Minister Jeevan Jyoti enrollment in the insurance plan. If the factory is a bit bigger then the facilities will be ensured by the Employee Provident Fund and ESIC. In the meantime, the new people who will get jobs in MSME will get the benefit of the Prime Minister's Employment Incentive Scheme. This will also be ensured. In this round of Globalisation, these 12 decisions will strengthen MSME and write a new chapter.Loan facility in just 59 minutes, loan through GST portal, entrepreneur GST linked to interest, cheap export credit, all government companies on TReDS and decision to bring more than 500 million big companies, government 25 per cent mandatory requirement for purchase, at least 3 per cent purchase from women entrepreneurs, registration of all government companies on GeM, 20 HUB and 100 Spokes nationwide for Technology Upgradation, Country Switch to pharmaceutical manufacturing Clstrs, changes in labor laws, simplification of use, procedures attached to the report, Environmental Clearance Inspection within 48 hours returns and big changes in the Companies Act, All these decisions are going to strengthen the MSME sector, giving a new height. I will urge the Center and the State Government employees to work further in this greatness of nation building on this occasion. With these efforts, these decisions will have a good result, their benefits will reach the small entrepreneurs across the country. And my colleagues, when my team will take up this obligation, will do so much hard work, even if I feel like I am also going to do my bit of contribution in this work. Therefore, in 100 districts where there is a heritage with MSMEs, a specialization is attached, I will review the works being carried out there. The team which is working on the ground, together with it, will be supervised by me for the next 100 days. I will work with you on the shoulder side and I have to try it successfully.Companions, MSMEs of India, all of you are really Aspirational India, Aspiring India, Ambitious India. You see the result of your hard work. With this hard earned earning, MSMEs become seeds and become big enterprises in the future and thrive new entrepreneurs, nurture them. MSMEs are the symbol of the government's sense of which in place of Job Seeker is  to  create an Job Creator. You are not just the beginning, one  of the important manufacturers of New India  .I sincerely hope these campaigns will be beneficial for small industries and MSMEs across the country will benefit from all these decisions.I am also convinced that small enterprises will further give a new dimension to the industrial revolution of the country and the cornerstone of the technology driven clean business.By placing all these improvements, you make the move to Make More in India, give energy, with this desire, I end my talk.I am sure that Deepawali will also be auspicious for all of you, the entire MSME sector of the country, will be beneficial and will also bring new opportunities.Thank you all very much.Thanks a lot!