All the ladies and gentlemen associated with different areas of society here!Sageo, this month of August brings itself an atmosphere of purity and resolution. This revolution is the month of remembering the soldiers who dedicated themselves to the country's independence. Along with Independence Day, there are many festivals in this month which enrich our social and cultural life. I wish you all very well for all the coming festivals.In our tradition, in our festivals, our festivals have a very high level of nature. Today's event is also associated with nature, environment and modern traditions. I congratulate you all on World Biofuel Day.For how to improve the lives of hundreds of millions of people, the government is taking many steps, constantly making efforts, making new plans. Empowering the village economy, increasing the income of the farmer of the village, preparing gas, diesel, gas options, and securing the environment; This is in our government's priorities. Biofuel is going to play an important role in achieving these goals. Biofuel has the power to become a big help in coordination between the environment and our economic progress.Friends, biofuel is not just science but it is the mantra which is to the 21st century India, not just to India; The whole world is about to give new energy to mankind. Biofuel, i.e. fuel emanating from crops, fuel released from crop residues, fuel from garbage waste. It is going to change the life of the village from India to the city and it is going to improve. And in the film that was shown, an old adage was also remembered - the prices of common mango and kthali. There is a very old saying, this is a modern form of it.The maximum use of biofuel will increase the income of the farmers, create new employment opportunities, save the country's wealth and also prove to be a blessing for the environment. This is part of our broad vision for the country, where cleanliness, health and village, the path of prosperity of the poor farmer is going to get stronger. Apart from this, it is also associated with the modern model of urban development. Biofuel is very helpful in reducing air pollution among all the efforts of clean energy in cities.Friends, a large number of our farmers, brothers and sisters have come here today, and coming to the Vigyan Bhawan of the farmer has a message in itself. Rainfall is different in most parts of the country, there is a flood, and there is hope for rain. We are constantly looking at those reports. There is also an enjoyment of satisfactory rain, so there is anxiety due to rain due to rain.Especially my farmers, brothers, sisters- I now consider sowing of all the kharif crops including paddy. It is almost complete in every corner of the country and it is in your knowledge that the government has to support the minimum support cost of 14 kharif crops. Has fixed one and a half times. And when it comes to agriculture, Swaminathan's name is naturally taken over here. And I am happy that just two-three days ago Mr. Swaminathan ji has been changing the agriculture sector through an article, how the government is taking initiative, how the policies of the government are permanently in the life of the farmers Changes are taking place in big detail, and they are an authority. In a lot of detail, they have policies, plans, plans, and policies related to the farmers of the Indian government, have greatly appreciated them.And you also saw, also seen in the film. In addition to the other crops in Kharif season, we have also decided to make MSP for sugarcane so that farmers can get around 80% profit over the cost. The beneficial price of sugarcane this season has been increased by Rs 20 to Rs 275 per quintal. With this increased cost, millions of farmers of the country will be directly benefitted. Apart from this, the government is trying to make ethanol from sugarcane to ensure that farmers are also benefited.At the time when the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government was on the plan to build ethanol from sugarcane, the work started. But in the past decade, now that the government had a situation, every scheme was similar; This effort was not taken too seriously. When in 2014 again the Bharatiya Janata Party and the NDA government formed in the center, a roadmap was created out of the baggage. Ethanol blending program has been started. Today, these programs are running smoothly in 25 States and Union Territories of the country. A record of ethanol has been produced over the past four years and in the next four years, the country is moving forward towards producing about 450 million ethanol.Friends, ethanol has not only benefited the farmers but also saved the country's money. By mixing ethanol with petrol, the country has saved the foreign exchange equivalent to about four thousand crores last year. The government's goal is that in the next four years, these savings have reached nearly 12 thousand crore rupees. Not only that, in the next four years, it is estimated to raise more than Rs 20,000 crore from the production of ethanol from sugarcane. With this saving and the choice of cane for sugarcane, sugarcane farmers will have a permanent solution to the problems which often have to withstand the problem. Earning money is being saved by ethanol, in addition to which the harmful gases that come out of petrol are also coming in.Friends, the targets associated with biofuel are being fixed, that is, one is a wishful thinking, big things happen, it is not so. Policies are being created to achieve this goal, a solid strategy is being formulated, responsibility is being fixed, accountability is being fixed, regular monitoring is being conducted, time bound arrangements are being made to get the target. The government has created a national policy to develop all the biological mediums including ethanol. This is the government's attempt to increase the ability to mix up to 10 percent by 2022 and double to 2030 i.e., with 20 percent ethanol, petrol.Only sugarcane farmers will get an option from biofuel, this will benefit every farmer of the country. Our wheat, rice, maize, potato, vegetables, we all know - often due to weather or due to the lack of storage, gets spoiled, decayed, ruined. And obviously, what farmers will do by handling it, it gives francs. But now we have decided that it should also be used to make ethanol.Another problem is in front of the farmers that due to natural reasons there is some shortage in the crop - like staining, size is small; There are many such causes, and due to which their crops can not be sold. The customer who does not like it, refuses. The shopkeeper who does not even take it, and due to this, the half-dead hail of the weather also forces the farmer to suffer a lot. There is also all this grain to make ethanol - small, broken, crushed, reddish color, all these things are used to make ethanol. And in this, if we achieve perfection from the planned policy, then you can believe that in such a farm, the crop will not be in vain. You can imagine how big power will come in our farmers' lives.Not only in the National Policy, but also in the national policy, a nationwide plan is being made to change the waste from the fields, the waste from the fields and the dung of the animals in the fuel. In the coming days, banana peels, which are not easily found in the form of garbage in every house but also farmers, they are also going to work in the form of fuel.Apart from this, ethanol is being made from grass and bamboo. Bamboo is produced especially in the northeast and the other tribal areas. In such a situation, it will be an important step for the economy, which will benefit those who cultivate bamboo.Sageo Parli is also a big problem for farmers. And do not know, because of lack of understanding, because of the absence of time, say anything - this Parali is a very valuable natural beauty in itself. But due to inanimate habits or habits, we burn such valuable herbs. These precious herbs giving new life to the ground, we burn our eyes in front of our eyes. And I am seeing- Punjab, be Haryana- farmers here, this is a routine program. And this is a very big challenge.But I repeatedly explain to my farming brothers that due to burning of this parali, there is an impact on the fertile power of the land, due to the smoke coming out from it, the entire environment has a bad effect. And therefore, the possibility of making ethanol from parali now is being worked very broadly. That is, now also you can become a source of income. And it will also get relief from pollution and farmers will also get additional income.Friends, the government is investing at a very large level to convert biomass into biofuel, is investing. There is a plan to build 12 modern refineries at a cost of Rs. Ten thousand crore across the country. Approximately 1000-1500 people are expected to get jobs from a refinery. I.e. from the operation of the refinery to the supply chain, new employment opportunities will be available to nearly 1.5 lakh young people. Apart from this, the plan to make fuel from cow dung is also in progress.In the previous budget, you must have seen, we announced the scheme- dung-money Under this dung-money scheme, a biogas plant is being installed in every district of the country. Only seven hundred plants are grown but further extension will be given to it. Farmers, self help groups, all over the country will be added to it.With the help of these schemes, a new economic prospects, economic power and a new change are being ensured in the lives of the poor, the farmers and the tribals. Not only your crop but also the dung of the farm, the remains of the farm, the garbage dump from the house, everything is being used properly, it is working in this direction.Apart from those who grow plants and fruits grown in the forest, their earnings are different. In the autumn season, if you have a habit of going to the jungles, you must have seen - one-one, two-two feet leaves fall down; 1 This can also become a means of great earning for yourself. This is a campaign of waste to wealth, along with this, the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan is also getting the speed. Because this is also a big reason for waste dirt.Friends, this is an important contribution of the youth who facilitated the technology through our Scientific Brothers and Start Up in this campaign. I am grateful to all of you on this occasion today. You are continuously trying to improve the biofuel-related technology but there is still a possibility of doing much in this field. Just like grains, it is important to pay attention to such products, which can produce more quality and more quantity of biofuels. For this, people associated with Start Up entrepreneurs and technology people will have to work together.I understand that the syllabus of our engineering colleges, ITI polytechnics, should be given preference for the course associated with biofuel. In addition, more and more information about biofuel should be provided to farmers through KVK's agricultural science centers across the country. Creating biofuel as the main theme in agricultural fairs across the country can increase awareness among farmers.The government is making an effort to bring new and better technology to generate energy from such a large number of problems, such as solid waste management- seawater, water from the industry, water from industry, cleanliness related to cleanliness of cities. And once I had read in the newspaper, there was a small town near the drain to hold a tea stall, used to make tea and sell it, it comes to making tea, my attention goes a little quicker, and there But there was a drain-dirt drain. Now there is some idea in mind. It is natural in that groove where there is a dirty drain, gas also emerges - there was a lot of deodorant. He overturned a small utensil and put a pipe in it and the gas which got out of the gutter took it from the pipeline to his own tea handle. And he used to make tea by using the same gas to make tea. Simple is C technology. That is how it is used,Once when I was in Gujarat, I saw that we were going to be conveyed and the bigger the scooter on which the tube of the tractor is, was full, it was taking and carrying. Imagine the tube carrying such a big tractor on the scooter is going on, so the fear of the vehicle coming back is scared, otherwise it will not collide. I was also wondering how such a move was taking. If any person is sensible then this will empty the tube and will run away. Go ahead and fill the air. He was taking it, I said stop it.We stopped the car and asked the scooter what the brother is, what are they doing, will fall somewhere, they will get hurt, they will die. No, I'm going to the farm. I said why are you taking this? Then, in my house, the garbage in the house kitchen, and I have two animals. The dung which comes out, I have made a small gas plant in my house. So I fill that gas into this tube and take the tube and then sow it. And go to the farm and run my water pump. Imagine our farmer of our country. That is why it is so powerful. Even today, our farmers, village people keep using something new.Those who are people of the world of Start Up, if they pay attention to it then perhaps those who never get bigger collages can get it from the farmer's thinking in the field. And by combining all these, we want to move things forward.Today B-3 is being worked on a plan, a comprehensive plan. The country is growing towards B-3, which is biomass, biofuel and bioenergy. In addition to ethanol, it is also working at a faster pace to make CNG ie Bio-CNG from waste today. The use of CNG in the transport system of the country is being encouraged to avoid pollution from petrol and diesel. At present, we import CNG from abroad. Now efforts are being made to reduce dependence on foreign countries from Bio-CNG. For this, more than two plantations have been planted so far in the country. That day is not far when the vehicles in the villages along with the cities will start driving CNG.Friends, plastic goods, rubber tires around us today, such things that, after use, become a big problem in itself; They are being used to make roads. And the same other garbage that has come out of the house - how to use it in the construction of roads, its possibilities are being searched.I just saw one of the African countries, a small job of poor people in the social media. He collects all the plastic from the village and takes them to the banks of the river and after taking a wooden stick, they burn the plastic and melt it. And on the same side, mixing sand from the river and making blocks from it and they sell them in big quantities, they are. Women are doing women self help group. They are also cleaning the garbage and selling it in the market.The government is working on the policy of moving forward by creating a balance between development and environment. When we talk about balance with the environment then there is an important role of electricity. How electricity is generated and used, it has a direct impact on the environment.When it comes to generating power, today's emphasis is on creating electricity from all other mediums including solar energy, along with traditional methods like coal and gas. Through the International Solar Alliance, we are promoting solar energy not only in India but in the whole world.Today, there is a lot of progress on the use of solar power in the field of solar pumps to industrial businesses, offices. Apart from this, electricity is being saved by ensuring the lighting of the LED bulb in the streets, houses and offices of the country. And I'm happy that now the railway stations of the country are beginning to be lit with LED bulbs. He completed all the work. Now the goal is that in the coming days, every building of the railway and 100% LED bulbs should be installed in each of the railway quarters. LED lights are promoting, environmental concern - clean India, is linked to the mission of healthy India.Smokeless kitchen is also part of this broad vision. Today I congratulate the five million poor families of this country, congratulate those mothers and sisters who have been freed from the smoke.Such a great work can happen in India in such a long time, it is unique in itself. There are hundreds of millions of people in our country and there are some 25-26 crore families. In these 25-26 crore households, to bring 5 million families to the gas stove in such a short time, in your own self, you can calculate how much results are available if there is work at a faster pace.Friends, there will be farmers throughout the day, technicians will also be there, there will also be officers of the government, all of you will meet together to discuss the biofuel. They are about to discuss the challenges related to them. The farmers who are dealing with everyday problems are discussing. And I believe that many new suggestions will be made to make the energy needs of this hundred and fifty million people beneficial to farmers and many new ways will be there.The revolution of change from biofuel will not be accessible from home and home only by the government's efforts, but in it we have transformed our students, our teachers, our scientists, our entrepreneurs, i.e. Will have to giveThe States which have come here, have also urged them to make extra efforts at the level of their respective villages to reach the villages and villages of the country. And I believe that India has taken initiative in the direction of biofuel and the world is celebrating Biofuel day today, then India has the power to give the world a belief worried by global warming. These steps of India are being appreciated all over the world today.The world is looking at the policies and plans of India, and in today the effort will fill new energy, clarify the direction and speed up the pace. With this confidence, I wish you all very much from the heart for this successful scheme.Thank you.