Today is August 11. 110 years ago today, for the country's independence, Khudiram Bose sacrificed everything for the motherland. I bow to that heroic revolutionary, pay tribute to him on behalf of the country.Colleagues,For those who gave life to freedom, dedicated everything to them, they became immortal, they became idols of inspiration. But we are people who have not got the good fortune to die for independence, but we also have good fortune that we can live for free India, we can enjoy a new life of life by living the country's independence for the reform of the nation. . Today, I am seeing the enthusiasm in front of you, within yourself, the confidence that you are seeing, confident that we are moving on the right path.Colleagues,IIT Bombay is one of those institutions of independent India that was envisaged to give new direction to nation building through technology. For the past 60 years, you have continued in this mission. The journey started from 100 students has reached 10 thousand today. During this time, you have also established yourself in the top institutions of the world. This institution is celebrating its diamond jubilee, Diamond Jubilee. But they are more important than all those diamonds which are present here in front of me, who are getting initiation today, and who have been initiating from here, are illuminating the name of India all over the world. Today, on this occasion, I heartily congratulate students, students and students, who received the degree, and their families, I congratulate him. Today, Dr. Romesh Wadhwani ji has been given the degree of Doctor of Science. Too much congratulations to Dr. Wadhwani on my side. Ramesh ji has worked for ages to connect the technology to the needs of the common man. Through the Wadhwani Foundation, he has created employment opportunities for youth in the country, Developed the environment of innovation and enterprise. As an institution, it is also a matter of pride for all of you that many students like Wadhwani ji, who have come here, are actively contributing in the development of the country. The only result of the last 6 decades of continuous efforts is that IIT Bombay has made its place in the country's selected Institutions of Eminence. And now you were told that you are now going to get financial help of Rs.1000 crores which is going to be useful in the development of infrastructure here in the future. I also congratulate you and the whole team for this.The nation is proud of the IITs, and what IIT graduates have achieved. The success of the IITs led to the creation of several engineering colleges around the country. They were inspired by the IITs, and this led to India becoming one of the world’s largest pools of technical manpower. The IITs have built Brand India globally. And they did it over the years. IIT graduates went to America and excelled there: first as students in Universities and then as technology experts, entrepreneurs, executives and in academics. It was a large number of IIT students who built the IT sector in India, brick by brick..or I should say, click by click. Earlier Indians with the IT sector were considered hard working and intelligent – but mainly in other nations, mainly in the US. Now India has become the destination for IT development.And today, IIT graduates are at the forefront of some of the best start-ups in India. These are start-ups that are also at the forefront of solving so many national problems. To those working in the start-up movement or are planning to start one after College, please do remember that the biggest corporations of today were start-ups of yesterday. They were the result of idealism combined with hard-work and diligence. Keep at it, do not give up, and you will succeed.You are fortunate to have lived in a campus like this, in a city like Mumbai. You have a lake on one side, and the hills too. Occasionally, you share your campus with crocodiles and leopards. It is still August, but I am sure the mood is indigo today! I am sure the last four years were a wonderful learning experience for you all.There is so much to look back and remember the college festivals, inter hostel sports, student-faculty associations. Did I mention some studies as well? You have received what can be called the best that our education system has to offer. Students here represent the diversity of India. From different states, speaking different languages, from different backgrounds, you merge here in pursuit of knowledge and learning.Colleagues,IIT Bombay is one of those institutions which are working for New India's New Technology. In the coming two decades, how much and how will the world develop, it will decide on innovation and new technology. In this case your IIT's role becomes very important. Whether it is 5G Broadband Technology, Artificial Intelligence, Block Chain Technology, Big Data Analysis or Machine Learning, this is the technology that will prove to be important for the vision of Smart Manufacturing and Smart Cities in the future.The new building that will be inaugurated shortly after sometime, is also going to be crucial in this direction. Department of Energy Science and Engineering and Center for Environmental Science and Engineering will be working in this new building. Considering that energy and environment are the biggest challenges for the country and the world, and I believe that in the coming time there will be a better environment for research in these two areas.I am told that a Solar Lab is also being set up in this building, so that the students will have access to Solar Energy related research. In addition to Solar Energy, Biofuel is going to prove a very big source of Clean Energy in the coming days. I had also said on the occasion of World Biofuel Day in Delhi that studying engineering related to engineering should be studied in small to large institutions, research should be done.Colleagues,IIT knows the country and the world as the Indian Institute of Technology. But today our definition has changed a bit for us. These are not just the places associated with technology studies, but IIT has become India's Instrument of Transformation today. When we talk about Transformation, a very big source of our country's move towards the start up of the Start Up is our IIT. Today the world is treating IIT as a nursery of Unicorn Start Ups. That is, the start ups are now being launched in India, whose future is expected to be worth more than one billion dollars. These are mirrors of a technique in which the world looks to the future.Colleagues,There are dozens of people who have been established by IITs today, in the billions of dollars that are present in the world today. Today I look forward to many such Unicorn Founders of the future.Friends,Innovations and Enterprise are going to be the foundation stone for making India a developed economy. A long term sustainable technology-led economic growth is possible on this foundation.That's why we started campaigns like Start Up India and Atal Innovation Mission, whose results are now getting started. Today India is the second largest ecosystem in the world in the field of Start Up. More than 10 thousand Start Ups are being nurtured in the country and a comprehensive arrangement of funding is also being done.Colleagues,Today, we are constantly climbing up the rankings of Innovation Index. What this means is that from Education to Environment, which is our Holistic Approach, the result is coming to the world today. In order to develop a scientific taper in the country and to create an environment of research, special emphasis has been given to infrastructure in Higher Education.Innovation is the buzzword of the 21st century. Any society that does not innovate will stagnate. That India is a emerging as a hub for start-ups shows that the thrust for innovation is very much there. We must build on this further and make India the most attractive destination for innovation and enterprise. And, this will not happen through Government efforts alone. It will happen through youngsters like you. The best ideas do not come in Government buildings or in fancy offices. They come in campuses like yours, in the minds of youngsters like you.My appeal to you and many other youngsters like you is: Innovate in India, Innovate for humanity.From mitigating climate change to ensuring better agricultural productivity, From cleaner energy to water conservation, From combating malnutrition to effective waste management. Let us affirm that the best ideas will come from Indian laboratories and from Indian students. On our part, we are doing everything possible to foster a spirit of research and innovation in India.In the last four years 7 new IITs, 7 new IIMs, 2 IISER and 11 IIITs have been approved. In order to improve the infrastructure, RISE, Revitalization of Infrastructure and Systems in Education program has been started. It aims to raise one lakh crore rupees in the next four years. New institutions, new infrastructures are necessary, but more importantly, there is skilled power ready from there. The government is also paying attention to this.Colleagues,The country prepares about 7 lakh engineers every year in campus, but some people leave only with a degree. They do not develop skill capacity. I urge the teachers present here to ask the intellectuals to think about how to improve quality, bring suggestions on this. Not only Quantity but quality is also high level, it is a collective responsibility for all of you, all of us. The government is also making efforts for this.Your information will be that the government is running the Prime Minister's Research Fellows scheme. Under this, resources are provided to research for a thousand meritorious engineering students across the country every year. Not only this, the students selected in this scheme have the arrangements for admission in prestigious institutes like PhD, IIT and IISc. This Fellowship is providing you the opportunity to provide the best facilities for research while living in the country. Students of IIT Bombay should also take advantage of this.Colleagues,The people who are sitting here are either teachers or future leaders. You are about to join the work of policy making for the country or for an organization in the coming time. You are preparing yourself for new start ups like Technology and Innovation. You have a definite vision for what to do, how to do it.Colleagues,It is often not easy to leave old practices. This problem also occurs with society and governmental systems. Imagine how difficult it is to convince the system which has been developing for thousands of years, for the change of system which was running for hundreds of years. But when there is Dedication, Motivation and Aspiration in the center of your thinking and action, then you are able to overcome all obstacles.Today the government is working with all of you, keeping the expectations of millions of youth in the country. I urge all of you to take away the confusion of your failure, will not get success, do not do it, remove confusion and focus on aspirations. High goals, high thinking will motivate you more, confused will bind your talent into borders.Colleagues,It is not enough to just have aspirations, the goal is also important. Those of you who are coming out here today or coming out in the coming years, all of you are going to join any other institution. Are going to lay the foundations of a new institution. I hope that in all such activities, you must take care of the needs of the country and the needs of the countrymen. There are many such problems that you can find all to solve.Colleagues,In order to make the life of 100 million people easier, with ease in every effort to ensure the Living of Living, this government is standing with every thought, ready to go with you. Therefore, whenever I talk to students like you, scientist brothers and sisters, I certainly talk about City based Clusters of Science around all IITs like IITs. The motive is that all the people associated with Students, Teachers, Industry, Start Up, have the opportunity to work in one place, to work according to each other's requirements, R & D. Now take the area in which Mumbai is your institute. I have been informed that there are about 800 colleges and institutes in Greater Mumbai, about half a million people are studying. Today, when we are here for convocation, this is the diamond jubilee year of this institute, on this occasion, I want to join you with a resolution. What IIT Bombay,Colleagues,You well know that the government has given more autonomy to the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) by making the law. The government has also emphasized that students studying in IIM - Alumni, play an active role in these institutions. They are also being represented in IIM's Board of Governors. I think institutions like IIT should also consider such a decision to take advantage of the experience of their alumni. In this case, Alumni will also get a chance to do something better for her institution. Every student sitting in front of me is all about the future and all of you will agree with me that Alumni is such a force that can play an important role in giving this institute a new height. I have been told that there are more than 50 thousand Alumni only for IIT Bombay. You can get a lot of benefit from their knowledge, their experience.Colleagues,You have worked very hard to get here. Many of you will be companions who have come here to fight with the inconvenience. You have amazing potential, you get better results as well. But there are millions of young people who work hard to come here but they can not get success. There is no shortage of talent in them. In the absence of opportunities and guidance, they could not get this opportunity. In the life of such many students, guiding them, you can bring a new power, new consciousness, new light. It would be even better if IIT Bombay created the Outreach Program for nearby schools. Arrangements for bringing small children to campus here so that they are inspired by scientific research. It will be in your knowledge that now a big campaign of the Atal Tinkering Lab is being run in the schools of the country. Where Artificial Intelligence, New technology like 3D printing is being introduced to children. This type of outreach in schools will also help this campaign. It is possible that sometimes we can get some new inspiration from all of us, even young people, with the new ideas of the brain.Colleagues,The degree you have received today is a symbol of your dedication to your goal. Remember that this is just a hiatus, the real challenge is waiting outside of you. What you have achieved till today and what you are going to do now is the expectations of yourself and your family, the hundred and fifty million people. What you are going to do will be the future of the new generation of the country and New India will also be strong.To make you successful in fulfilling crores of expectations, once again many good wishes, very much congratulations, I have had the opportunity to spend some time among all, I consider myself blessed.Thanks a lot !