Maharashtra Governor Shri Vidyasagar Rao, Maharashtra Chief Minister Shri Devendra Jee, Assembly Speaker Haribabu Ji, my colleague of the Council of Ministers Mr. Subhash Dhamare, Chairman of Saibaba Institute Trust Mr. Suresh Hawre, all the ministers of Maharashtra, MP of my Companions, MLAs of Maharashtra and here are my dear brothers Ejoys and sisters, all of you congratulate the whole of Maharashtra, the whole of India, the people of the country, Vijayadashmi of Dussehra.We all keep these efforts. Celebrate the festival with each other every year. It is also my endeavor to celebrate every festival of the people and celebrate it. With this feeling, I have had the privilege of being present among all of you today. Just as you have come to bless me with a huge number of people on the holy occasion of all the Dussehra. And I see that there is no place left, half of them are standing in the sun. I am all yours and yours, this is my power that for your love, your love constantly communicates new energy. Gives me strengthAlong with associates, Dussehra, we are today witnessing another holy occasion on this holy land of Shirdi. The centenary celebrations of Saibaba's Samadhi also had this opportunity of completion, completion, and completion of today. Just a few moments ago, I had an opportunity to receive the blessings of Sai Baba in his philosophy. Whenever I visit Lord Sai Baba, I remember them like millions of devotees like you have a sense of service in the hearts of people, and a new zeal for devoting themselves to the service of the masses Get.Sai's mantras in the particles of the brothers and sisters Shirdi is their learning. When it comes to public service, renunciation and penance, everyone represents the example of Shirdi. This is our Shirdi town of Tatya Patil Ji, this grandfather is the city of Kotli. This land is given by great people such as Madhavrao Deshpande, Malsapati. Kashiram Shipi and Appa Jagadee served till the last time of Saibaba. Who can forget Kondaji, Gava Ji and Tuka Ram? I bow to the great saints of this holy place.Brothers and sisters is the mantra of Sai, the owner of all is one. Sareen's four words have become a formula sentence for uniting the society. Sai belonged to society and the society was of Sai. Sai had told some ways of service to the society and I am happy that on the path shown by Sai Baba Shri Saibaba Institute, Trust is continuously serving the society.To empower society through education, there is a change in thinking through spirituality. Your efforts for communicating harmony and co-operation in society are very venerable.Even today, many projects related to faith, spirituality and development have been started on this earth. And I congratulate the Maharashtra government. There is no place for this big scheme for the welfare of the poor. Working for the poor, sitting at the feet of Sai can be a great blessing. And hence the Government of Maharashtra is eligible for congratulations. I am happy to be present on the occasion of Bhumi Pujan of the new campus for the visitors. Today the foundation of Saibaba English Medium School Kanya Vidyalay and College is being laid on the same day. I am sure that Sai Knowledge Park, which started with Sai's life and philosophy, will make it easier for people to understand Sai's learning.Today, a work of 10 MW solar power unit has been started here today. This will increase the resources of the Institute. And the Institute will have a lot of participation in clean energy. In a way, this Dussehra is a great gift of Vijaya Dashmi for millions of pilgrims from Sai Trust.This is the time of the year from Sathyo, Navaratri to Deepawali, when the people buy many things like house, car, jewelery. The one whose strength is, he saves money accordingly and gives gifts to his family. I am happy that on this sacred occasion of Dushehra, I have had the opportunity to hand over my house to 2.5 million brothers and sisters of Maharashtra.My siblings for whom my own house is always dreaming. I understand the service of my poor brothers and sisters greater than my family members visiting this huge family together, worshiping Dussehra, what could be more than this service for me. All of you are very happy to all of you, this new house built under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme, this auspicious opportunity to come to your life. This new house is a symbol of your own dreams. There are also new dimensions to your aspirations. Now your life, your children's life has progressed on the path of meaningful change. This is a very important first step towards victory over poverty.Peers make their home easier. And creates new excitement of fighting poverty. A sense of respect is born. Keeping this in mind, we have thought that 2022 will be 75 years of India's independence. We are working with the goal of giving our own home to every homeless poor household in the country.I am happy that we have crossed almost half way in such a short time. The brothers and sisters are poor or the middle class's family has made serious efforts towards the slums in the last four years, giving them their house by taking out a house from the rented house. Attempts have already been done but unfortunately, their intention was to promote the name of a particular family instead of empowering the poor by giving them home to the poor. This was his motive for forming a vote bank. The house is good, it has toilets, electricity, water, gas connection. It has never been thought before. When the political selfishness at the core of a plan does not happen in the center. Instead of political self-interest, only the poor and the well-being are motivated to make their life easier. Then how does the pace of work increase? This is a living example in front of the country today.Companions, the previous government, in the last four years, had only made up 25 lakh houses in the whole country. In the last four years, 25 lakhs ......, how many ... .. do not say what happened ... .. how many houses were built in four years? How many houses were built in four years? 25 lakhs, while after the formation of our government in the last four years, Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has built 1.55 million houses after coming to the center. His four years of 25 lakhs and our four-year ten crore 25 lakhs.If that was the government, it would take 20 years to build such a house ... 20 years and you also have to wait for this house for 20 years. This is the example of how the government, which works at a faster pace, gives faster work to the poor. And you see everything is the same. In the same way, the same resource, the same people, but with clear intentions, when it comes to the service of the poor, results are achieved at such a fast pace.Brothers and Sisters The government of the first took about 18 months to build a house, it took about one and a half years. In this government, within a year, the house gets ready in less than 12 months. Time has decreased, we have increased the size of the house too. Along with this, government help has also been increased from 70 thousand rupees to 1 lakh 20 thousand rupees for building the house. The most important thing is that the money is being deposited directly into the bank account. And beneficiaries are being selected in a scientific and transparent manner. Not only this, these homes are durable, they have all basic facilities including toilets. It is also being taken special care.Once again, I congratulate the people who received their home today under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme. And when I got a chance to talk to some families today in different districts. The confidence of those sisters, the joy of their face gave me so much happiness that you could not imagine. When a poor family of mine sees happiness in his face, then he becomes blessed to do his life. New energy is available to work. Today, all these sisters who gave me the blessings again, once again repeat the resolution that for the sake of your service, we will continue to spend our lives for you.The campaign to connect the homes of the brothers and sisters with the convenience of toilets is now at the final stop. Maharashtra has done commendable work in this case. All of you have declared themselves free from the open defecation in whole Maharashtra. I congratulate the 11 crore citizens of the state for this. With this, the villages and lanes of Maharashtra will remain clean and together with many diseases like diarrhea, the life of the children of poor farmers families will be safe.Companions, when it comes to the lives of poor and health. Nowadays, there is a great discussion of AYUSHMAN India ie PMJAY Prime Minister Jan Arogya Yojna, in which around 50 crore citizens of the country have been provided free treatment in the event of critical illness every year.Millions of families of Maharashtra are benefitting from this scheme. It has not yet started this month. But nearly 1 lakh patients have taken advantage of this in hospitals all over the country. Due to this scheme, a poor patient has been treated free of stones. So a poor tumor has been removed. If someone's medical bill of 50 thousand rupees was filled then someone's worth three lakhs.Companions, as per the scheme, the claim that has been given so far has been given on an average of about 20 thousand rupees per person. Now you think That amount of thousands of people had to spend the poor with their own pocket. He could not even do that. That's why he used to avoid going to the hospital. Now the government is standing with that poor. Do not worry that money. Treat yourself first.The new structure of modern medical infrastructure is being prepared in the country due to its companions, Ayushman Bharat Scheme. Especially tier II, tier III cities have thousands of new hospitals open. These hospitals will also bring millions of new employment opportunities for the youth of the country.Every section of the society and every sister, sisters and sisters of society should be happy, everyone's life is simple and accessible. The government is working with this goal. My knowledge is that in the part of the state, grace of Varun Dev in Maharashtra has diminished, rain has come down. I assure you that under the Prime Minister's Crop Insurance Scheme, you will get relief as soon as possible. Apart from this, the central government will also take full support from the Government of Maharashtra.To remove the farmers of this country from the problems of the brothers and sisters water, the government is working to complete the projects stuck for years under the prime minister's agricultural irrigation scheme. Under this, work on many big projects in Maharashtra is also underway. The Maharashtra government has also made an unprecedented effort to tackle water conservation through its water camp. It is a matter of great satisfaction that due to this campaign, 16 thousand villages of the state have been drought free and the work of drought free of nearly 9 thousand villages is going on fast.I will also admire the people of Maharashtra for this matter that they have successfully campaigned the Desiltation campaign of irrigation tanks successfully. Removal of 9 million cubic meters of silt from irrigation tanks is not easy. But you have shown the way to the whole country by doing an unprecedented work with people's participation. I have been told that if this work was given to a contractor then it would have cost more than six hundred crore rupees. But you have done the same work with your hard work.Companions are continuously making efforts for the crop to be even more and to get its due. This is our government which has fulfilled the old demand of farmers for the MSP. The government has decided to increase the cost of 50 percent of the kharif and Rabi crops, including the sugarcane, in the support price. This historic decision will ensure the extra income of thousands of crores of rupees to the farmers of this year.Along with the peers, the government is also promoting Tourism. In Maharashtra, there is also a large space associated with faith like Shirdi and other places like Ajanta Ellora on the other. Where tourists from around the world come to draw. We have started a huge campaign to add faith, spirituality and history to the employment of youth.The nation's camaraderic circuit is being interconnected. Facilities are being built there. Here at Shirdi, the last time that our President came to inaugurate this centenary ceremony he had given the gift of the airport. I am told that the flight which is going on from now on will increase further in the coming time. So that every Saiyya devotee of the country and the world can easily come and visit here.Brothers and Sisters, Maharashtra's land always taught the text of social harmony to the country. Veer Shivaji Ho, Baba Saheb, Bhimrao Ambedkar, or the revered Mahatma Jyotiba Phule. All have established the values ​​which consider equality and unity as social power. You have to always remember the lessons of these great saintly men and to defeat every evil which separates the society in order for selfishness, every evil. It is easy to break, it is very difficult to add. Empowering the power to connect us is to defeat the forces that break. With all of us, this development of India and this same resolution of one of India's best India is to take this visionary to us. And so I will urge all of you to go ahead with this message and we have to walk through this message. We have to walk on the path that Saiiba has shown. I am very gladCompanions, today I am finishing the centenary ceremony in this holy place. On October 31 this year, the government of all of you will be completing four years. I congratulate Devendra Fadnavis and his whole team in advance. You continue to serve the people of Maharashtra with full power. And you get the blessings of the people here. This is my wish.With this belief, once again congratulating all those families who have found their own home today on their own day of Dussehra. These new homes become the means of fulfilling your dreams, while staying in these homes, you and your family grow further in life, grow, your children reach new heights of success. With this desire, I end my talk and to thank all of you for this sacred occasion, I also thank Shri Sai Trust for giving this opportunity of service. Every festival that comes to you will bring happiness to you all. Thank you very much all with this good luck.Thank you