I will say Sardar Patel, you people will say- stay immortal, amareSardar Patel. Immortal, immortal,Sardar Patel. Immortal, immortal,Sardar Patel. Immortal, immortal,I would like another slogan, who resonated from this land every moment in this country. I will say, the unity of the country, you will say - Zindabad, ZindabadUnity of the country - Zindabad, Zindabad.Unity of the country - Zindabad, Zindabad.Unity of the country - Zindabad, Zindabad.Unity of the country - Zindabad, Zindabad.Governor of Gujarat Shri Om Prakash Kohli, the Chief Minister of the State, Mr. Vijay Rupani ji, Governor of Karnataka, Shri Vajubhai Vala, Governor of Madhya Pradesh, Smt. Anandi Ben Patel, Member of Parliament and Member of Rajya Sabha Mr. Amit Bhai Shah, Gujarat. Deputy Chief Minister Shri Niran Bhai, Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Rajendra G., Excellency here and here from abroad Dear brothers and sistersOn the historic occasion of Satpura and Vindh, on the shores of this sacred stream of Mother Narmada, I congratulate all of you, the countrymen, the Hindus spread all over the world and everyone who loves Hindustan.Today the entire country is celebrating National Integration Day in memory of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. On this occasion our young men are racing for the unity and integrity of India in every corner of the country. Run for Unity I also greet all those participating in this. Your Bharat Bhakti and this is the same feeling of Bharat Bhakti which has flourished for thousands of years, our civilization has flourished and is flourishing. Colleagues come to such an opportunity in the history of any country when they fully realize. Today it is the moment that gets recorded in the history of a nation forever and it is very difficult to get rid of it. Today's day is also a momentous moment from such a few moments in India's history. We were walking for so many years of independence by taking an incomplete decision to give India the right place for a great personality devoted to the honor of India.Today, the present Indian has done the task of highlighting a golden man in his history. Today, while taking the throne from the earth to the head, Sardar Saheb is being anointed, then India has not only created a new history for itself, but has also prepared a skyscraper of inspiration for the future. It is my good fortune that I have had the opportunity to dedicate this huge statue of Sardar Sahib to the country. When I envisioned it as Chief Minister of Gujarat, I did not realize that one day as a Prime Minister, I would get an opportunity to do this virtuous work. For this blessing of Sardar Saheb, I consider myself blessed for the blessings of the people of the country. I am very grateful to the people of Gujarat for the congratulations that I have given to the people of Gujarat today. I do not have this honor letter or congratulatory letter, But in the soil which grew up in the middle of which there is a ritual, and like a mother holds hands on the back of her son, the strength of the son, excitement, energy increases thousands of times. In your honor letter today, I am feeling that blessing. I have also been given the first piece of iron found during the iron campaign. When we started the campaign in Ahmedabad, the flag that was hoisted was also given to me as a gift. I am grateful to all of you towards the people of Gujarat. And I will leave these things here, so that you can keep it in the museum here, so that the country can know. That too has been given to me as a gift. I am grateful to all of you towards the people of Gujarat. And I will leave these things here, so that you can keep it in the museum here, so that the country can know. That too has been given to me as a gift. I am grateful to all of you towards the people of Gujarat. And I will leave these things here, so that you can keep it in the museum here, so that the country can know.I am remembering that old day and today I am still very happy to say a lot. I am remembering the days when the soil was sought from the farmers from the villages across the country and work was being done to collect the old tools worked in the field. When lakhs of villages across the country had made themselves a mass movement by millions of farmers' families moving ahead. When hundreds of metric tonnes of iron was drawn from the tools given by them and a solid foundation of this statue was prepared.Companions, I also remember that when I put this idea in front, there was also an atmosphere of doubts and apprehensions, and I want to present one thing for the first time today. When this imagination was going on in the mind, then I was searching for the mountains here that I could find some such rock. By carving the same rock and removing the image of Sardar Sahib from it. After every kind of investigation we found that such a large rock is not even possible and this rock is not as strong anymore, then I had to change my mind and the idea that you are seeing today is born from it. I used to think constantly, interact with people, took suggestions for everyone, and today I am happy that people associated with this important project of the country have brought the confidence of the country to a peak.Brothers and Sisters, this highest statue of the world will be remembered for the whole world, our future generations, the courage, strength and determination of that person. Who had done sacred work to thwart the conspiracy to break Maa Bharati into pieces. The great man who ended all those fears forever, which was reflecting on the future of the future of India. I bow my head to such a Iron Man Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel.The strength of the peers, Sardar Saheb came to India when Maa Bharati was divided into more than five hundred princely states. There was a great disappointment for India's future in the world and the pessimistic was also in that era. Pessimists thought that India would be shattered due to its diversity. Even during that period of despair, everyone was expected to have a ray of hope and this hope is also the ray of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. Sardar Patel was involved in the bravery of Kautilya's diplomat and Shivaji Maharaj. He said Sardar Saheb in addressing the princely states on July 5, 1947 and I believe that these sentences of Sardar Sahib are equally meaningful even today. Sardar Saheb had said that our mutual disputes, mutual hostility and hatred in front of foreign invaders were a major reason for our defeat. Now we do not have to repeat this mistake nor to be the slave of someone again.Understanding the power of integration with Sardar Saheb's dialogue, these Raja-Rajas had merged their states. Seeing India, India became one. On the call of Sardar Saheb, hundreds of King and Rajas of the country had renounced the sacrifice. We should never forget this sacrifice of kings and kingdoms. And I also have a dream that in addition to this place, more than five and a half hundred Raja-Rajvadas have taken up the steps of the integration of the country to create a virtual museum so that the next generation ... or else today Democratically elected president of a tehsil should be elected and he should be told that leave the brother a year ago, then a big storm rises. These king-kings had given the things of their ancestors to the nation for centuries. We can never forget this, he has to remember.While making the strength of the weakness that the world was giving us at that time, Sardar Patel showed the path to the country. Surrounded by suspicion on the same path, India is communicating on its terms from the world today. Hindustan is moving forward towards becoming the world's largest economic and strategic power. If this is possible, then Sardar Sahib was a big contributor to that extraordinary personality born in the ordinary farmer's house, there is a huge roll. Regardless of pressure, no matter how many differences, how the governance is established in the administration. This Sardar Saheb did it. From Kutch to Kohima, from Kargil to Kanyakumari today, if we are going to stay uninterrupted then it has been possible due to his resolve, due to Sardar Sahab. Sardar Sahib would have taken no resolution, Imagine a moment, I want to shake my countrymen. Imagine the moment, if Sardar Sihah had not done this work, would have not taken the resolution, to see the fallen lion and fallen lion today and to worship Shiva devotees in Somnath and to see the Charminar of Hyderabad. We Indians have to take a visa. If Sardar Sahib did not have the will, then a direct train from Kashmir to Kanyakumari could not be imagined. If Sardar Sahib did not have the determination, then we had to face many difficulties in setting up an administrative structure like civil service. Had not taken this resolution, today we have to take a visa to see the fallen lion and the fallen lion and to worship Shiva devotees in Somnath and to look at the Charminar of Hyderabad. If Sardar Sahib did not have the will, then a direct train from Kashmir to Kanyakumari could not be imagined. If Sardar Sahib did not have the determination, then we had to face many difficulties in setting up an administrative structure like civil service. Had not taken this resolution, today we have to take a visa to see the fallen lion and the fallen lion and to worship Shiva devotees in Somnath and to look at the Charminar of Hyderabad. If Sardar Sahib did not have the will, then a direct train from Kashmir to Kanyakumari could not be imagined. If Sardar Sahib did not have the determination, then we had to face many difficulties in setting up an administrative structure like civil service.On April 21, 1947, addressing the probationers of All India Administrative Services, Brothers and Sisters, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel had said and the big words are important. Even today, whatever IAS, IPS, IFS, should remember this word, Sardar Saheb had said that till now the ICS ie Indian Civil Services was neither a person nor was he a civilian nor did he serve him There was a feeling. He called upon the youth to change the situation. He had told young people that they have to increase the respect of the Indian Administrative Service with total transparency, with full sincerity. It is to establish India for the new construction. It was the motivation of Sardar that the comparisons of India's administrative service were made from steelframe.Brothers and Sisters Sardar Patel was made the Home Minister of the country at such a time which was the toughest moment in the history of India. Their responsibility was the responsibility of the reconstruction of the country's arrangements, along with the obligation to handle the inconvenient law and order. He also created a solid base for our modern police system while taking the country out of those difficult situations. Sardar Saheb has been devoted every moment to connect with the common people of the country's democracy. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel has a huge role in giving women the right to make active contributions to the politics of India. When mothers and sisters in the country could not participate in the elections of Panchayats and cities, Then Sardar Saheb raised a voice against that injustice. On their initiative, many decades before independence, the path to overcome this distinction was opened to Sardar Saheb, due to which fundamental rights today are an effective part of our democracy.Companions, this statue is the living-awakening manifestation of Sardar Patel's own love, talent, foresight and spirituality. This talent is respected for their power and dedication, it is also an expression of new India's new self-confidence. This statue was eternal, eternal and eternal to remind those who questioned the existence of India.It is a symbol of self respect for the farmers of the country, whose soil of farmland and iron of the farm's material became its strong foundation and their spirit of producing food by colliding with every challenge has become its spirit. It is a memorial to the contributions of tribal siblings, who have made valuable contributions in the journey of independence from the movement of freedom. This height is to remind the young people of this vibrant Indian that the future of India is of your aspiration which is so vast. The power and mantra to fulfill these aspirations is just one and only one - 'One Bharat Best India', a Bharat Best India, One India Best IndiaCompanions Statue of Unity This symbolizes our engineering and technical abilities. Over the last three and a half years, on an average, every two and a half thousand workers have worked on the mission mode. After some time, who are going to be respected, have passed the age of 90 A team of stupendous artisans in the country led by the dignitical architect of the country, Mr. Ram Sutarji, has accomplished this glorious monument of art. The spirit of mission in mind is the dedication to national unity and the power of Bharat Bhakti which has been completed in such a short time. When Sardar Sarovar Dam was laid on its foundation and after several decades, it was inaugurated, it was seen and seen in front of his eyes. Every worker, every craftsman, every craftsman, I respectfully congratulate everyone who contributed to each and every engineer and congratulate everyone very much. All the names associated with it directly and indirectly have become an important part of history along with this statue of Sardar.This journey, which has reached a study today, started its journey eight years ago on today's day. On October 31, 2010 in Ahmedabad, I first put this idea in front of everyone. Like millions of Indians, I had the same feeling in my mind that the great man who has done such a great honor to unite the country, he should definitely get the respect, which he deserves. I wanted this honor also that they met the farmer, the sweat of that worker, for which Sardar Patel fought all his life. Companions, Sardar Patel did not only raise voice against farmers' exploitation from Kheda to Bardoli, did Satyagraha, but also gave solution to them. Today's cooperative movement which has become the strongest base of the economy of many villages in the country, it is the result of a long vision of Sardar Sahib.This memorial of peers, Sardar Patel is a symbol of respect for millions of Indians and the power of the countrymen, it is also going to be an important place for employment generation in the country's economy. This will provide thousands of tribal siblings with direct employment every year. Whatever nature has assigned to all the people settled in this region of Satpura and Vindhya, it is now your work in modern form. The forests which the country has read through poems are now going to direct interviews with those forests, those tribal traditions all over the world. Tourist Sardar Sarovar Dam, who visited Sardar Saheb, Satpura and Vindhya's mountains will also be able to see I will again admire the Government of Gujarat that they are developing all the terrain around this statue as a Tourist Sport. Which is the valley of flowers valley of flowers He is going to further enhance the attraction of this monument and I Would like to be a unity nursery here that every unity tourist coming here should take the plant of unity from the nursery to her house. And sow the tree of unity and remember the unity of the country every moment. Together, Tourism is going to change the lives of the people here.The traditional knowledge of associates, this district and this region has been very rich. Due to the development of tourism due to statue of unity, this knowledge of traditional knowledge will also be spread. And there will be a new identity of this area. I believe I am connected to this area, so I know a lot of things. Perhaps, even after sitting here, I would like many people sitting here. Una-marda, tahla-manda, chalka chaal, made from rice here, it is such a dish, you will love the tourists who will come here. In the same way, people associated with Ayurveda are known for their abundance in plants. Khati Bhindi is full of many qualities for medicine and its identity is far-reaching. And so I am confident that the memorial will also be the center of research to improve agriculture here and to improve the lives of the tribals.Companions In the past four years, the Government has started a huge campaign to recall the contribution of the heroes of the country. Even when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I had an urgency on these things. This is our ancient culture, the rites which we are moving forward with. This is a skyscraper of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. In his memory, we have also built modern museums in Delhi. Mahatma Mandir of Gandhi Nagar and Dandi Kutir Ho, Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar's Panchtirtha, Haryana's farmer leader Sir Chhotu Ram is the highest statue of Haryana. In the last few years, we have prepared a memorial for many great men, who should be the monument of Shyam Jee Krishna Verma, the patron of the armed revolution of freedom in the Mandvi of Kutch, the son of Gujarat, Shyam Jee Krishna Varma, and the brave hero of our tribal brother and sister, Govind Guru. Have been.Apart from this, there should be a museum of the leader G Subhash Chandra Bose in Delhi, the grand statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Mumbai or the creation of a museum in the memory of our tribal hero, the hero of the country's freedom, on these subjects, we revive history Are working for To recall Baba Saheb's contribution, it is our decision to start the constitution day on November 26 or to launch a national award in the name of the leader, our own government has initiated all these things. But many times I am surprised when there are some people in the country who dare to see our campaign with the spectacles of politics.Legends like Sardar Patel are not even known for praising the country's s children, we are criticized. Such an experience is made, as we have committed a great crime. I want to ask you whether it is a crime to remember the great men of the country? Our colleagues, our efforts are to make full use of our power in pursuing the vision of Sardar Patel, the favored nation of every citizen of India. Brothers and sisters Sardar Patel had conceived the kind of village in independent India and he mentioned it during the establishment of Vithal Bhai Patel College three or four months before independence and Sardar Saheb had said that at the time of the creation of that college We are building houses in our villages in very random ways, Roads are also being made without any thinking and the dirt remains in front of the houses. Sardar Saheb then called upon the villages to be free from the shock to get rid of smoke and dirt. I am glad that the dream Sardar Saheb had seen the country is moving forward towards fulfilling him. Due to public participation, now the rural sanitation coverage has reached 95%.Brothers and Sisters Sardar Patel wanted that India be strong, gentle, sensitive, alert and inclusive. All our efforts are in the direction of realizing their dream. We are working on the Bhajirath Yojana to give a permanent house to every homeless in the country. We have brought electricity to 18000 villages, where electricity has not been reached even after so many years of independence. Our government is engaged in day-to-day work to provide power connections to every household in the country under the Good Luck Plan. Linking every village of the country to the road, connecting with optical fiber network, connecting with digital connectivity is being done today at a fast pace. In every country today in the country there is a gas stove, with the effort of reaching the connection of gas, work is being done to facilitate toilets in every home of the country.The government is the world's largest, when I tell the people of the world, they are surprised that the population of America, the population of Mexico, the population of Canada, all of them and the more people than the population, the Prime Minister Jan Swasthya Yojana , Ayushman Bharat Yojana People sometimes call him as Modi care. It is a plan to help create healthy India. It is a plan to make India a lifeline. Our mission to try to fulfill the goal of inclusive and empowered India is our goal: 'All along with everyone's development' is our goal. This is our goal.Brothers and Sisters Sardar Saheb integrated the political integration of the country by adding principals. At the same time our government has made economic integration of the country through GST. The dream of one nation one tax has come true. We are continuing to expand the love of Sardar Saheb of India Joint. Whether there is a prize scheme involving large agricultural markets in the country, one nation should be a work of greed or India's flagship program like India Mala, Setu Bharatm, Bharat Net, by adding our government country to the dream of Sardar Sahib of 'India Bharat Bharat' Is engaged in realizing.Companions, today we have the power of thinking young people for the country. This is the only way for the development of the country, by which all the countrymen have to move forward. It is an obligation to maintain the unity, integrity and universality of the country, which Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel has handed over to the Hindus. It is our responsibility to respond strongly to every kind of effort to divide the country. And that's why we have to be cautious in every way, to be united as a society. We have to admit that we will not keep any less in bringing our sacred rites into the coming generations with complete purity.The colleagues, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, were called to every Indian, and I am telling the sentence of Sardar Sahib, Sardar Saheb used to say - Every Indian will have to forget that which caste or class he belongs to, he has to remember only one thing. That he is an Indian and as much as has authority over this country, there is equally duty. The eternal feeling of Sardar Sahib always kept us motivated like this magnificent statue. With this wist, once again for the Statue of Unity, which is not only the case of Indians, here the whole world is so strange to the world, and therefore the attention of the whole world has attracted the attention of Mother Narmada. I congratulate every partner associated with this. I congratulate everyone engaged in realizing this dream. I extend my best heartfelt wishes for every future of every tribal brother and sister youth settled in the Narmada and Tapti valleys.The whole country is associated with this opportunity, people around the world are associated with this opportunity today and with this great excitement and energy, this pilgrimage of unity has been prepared to take the mantra of unity forward. We are getting inspiration point from the inspiration of unity. With this spirit, let us move and also run, we also connect the connected people and take a dream to make India a 'India best India'.Speak with me-Sardar Patel - Jai HoSardar Patel - Jai HoZindabad the country's unity.Unity of the country - Zindabad.Unity of the country - Zindabad.Unity of the country - Zindabad.Unity of the country - Zindabad.Thanks a lot.