Gujarat's popular chief minister, brother Shri Vijay Bhai Roopani, sitting on the platform, good luck, very large number of Lala brothers and sistersAfter two-three days, the holy festival of Rakshabandhan and all the sisters have come here with such a big protection, I am very grateful to you. And the mothers and sisters from all over the country have given blessings to those who have given me protection, for this, I express my heartfelt gratitude to all the mothers and sisters.The festival of Raksha Bandhan will be exposed and in Gujarat, more than one lakh families, sisters get their house by their name, I think Rakshabandhan can not be a bigger gift than this.The sisters who got home today; Do not have a home, what is his pain, how life passes, how the future is dark; Every morning, I get up by taking a dream, the evening is lost in the dream, the life of the slum-hut is the same.But when there is a house, dreams also start to be decorated and then dreams also become theirs. And the whole family to fulfill these dreams; Abal, the elderly does all the hard work, man does the pleasure and the life begins to change.Prior to the holy festival of this Raksha Bandhan, I am very satisfied with all these mothers and sisters, giving more than one lakh families to this house and giving it to your brother.Today, another scheme is also worth 600 crores, which is also a gift to our mothers and sisters before the holy festival of Raksha Bandhan. The water crisis is the worst, if anybody in the family has to suffer, then mothers and sisters have to suffer. Mothers and sisters have to make arrangements for water for the whole family in our homes today. Due to lack of pure drinking water, it also becomes a house for home, life and disease. The pure drinking water prevents the family from many diseases.I have spent many years of my youth in this tribal area for years. When I lived in Dharmapura, Sidhbadi, there was always a question in my mind that so much rain is here but after Diwali, water does not save more than two months and then there is a craving for water. And remember me equally at that time in Dharmpur, Siddambur, in all belts, from this tribal to Umargaon to Ambaji, there is more rain in the entire tribal belt and all the water goes towards our side, towards the river, towards the sea is. All those areas are left without water.And when I was the chief then had decided by thousands of crores that from Omar village to Amba, all the tribal belt which is the eastern edge of Gujarat; Every village, every household should get water from the tap, they dream.Ten plans outlined in the film that was shown, the work of that last plan is being started today. Those who have seen the film will be surprised too. At the top where water is going to reach, at the height of the 200-storey house, the amount of water it will bring, so much water will be taken up. That is, in a way, the river will take to 200-hectare height and reach the people below the water. This is the miracle of technology.In our country, this polling booth is in the jungles of distant gaps for a poll, a voter and a polling booth. In the whole world, that box item becomes that the election process of India is such that there is a polling booth in the jungle forest where there is only one voter but there is also election management.I think it will become a strange one that a village is a habitation of 200-300 households, but to bring water to them, a vulnerable government can take water upto 200-storey, our devotion to every citizen, its won -Well is the example.Even before the governments remained. Tribal Chief Minister too. And when I was the new Chief Minister, when I was the tribal chief who had earlier, in his village when I went, there was a water tank but there was no water. I also had the privilege of giving water to the village.If a person makes a layer of water, if one keeps two spells for the passer-by and carries water, even then for years, that family is seen with great respect and pride.Even today, the stories of Lakhla Baldhara who worked for water, are on the verge of village-village in Gujarat and Rajasthan. Why, someone had worked for water. Today, I am proud that the Gujarat Government is running a campaign to bring water from the house-to-house tap, in itself.How our Gujarat is going forward How poor life of poor, how are our dreams; What is our endeavor to realize those dreams, it is visible.All of you must have seen me today, in a way, for half an hour, we got an opportunity to travel all over Gujarat. Got every district, there was an opportunity to talk to mothers and sisters. I used to listen to the matter but my eyes were at his house, what kind of house was it? You may have also noticed that you may also think that there can be many good houses of the Prime Minister's housing scheme, the government scheme. This is possible because the cut company is closed.If one rupee comes from Delhi then the whole of 100 paisa is reached in the poor's house, so this is possible. And in this government there is the courage that in the presence of so many TV people, in the presence of so many newspapers, in front of such a huge crowd, and when the whole country is watching on TV, then with courage I can ask a mother that you Someone did not have to pay bribe? Nobody has taken the brokerage?We are engaged in the creation of this character and I am happy when mothers were speaking with great confidence, contentment, not living. We have got our right, got under regular rules, we have not had to give anyone a new rupee.You saw those houses, the quality of these houses under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme, when we were looking at, you would have to think that what is the matter, what government can have such houses! It is true that the government has given the money, but the sweat of that family is also attached to the government's money. And because of that, he decided to own the house, because he decided. Which material would use, the family decided. How to make houses, they decide.We did not work on the trust of the government contractors, we trusted this family and when the family builds its house, makes the best of the best and the happiness that is in those villages in every village of Gujarat, these families have made sampled houses. I congratulate them for this.We have launched a major campaign to liberate the country from poverty, but have been run by the empowerment of the poor. There was a bank but the poor did not have access to the bank. We put the bank in front of the poor house and in the Prime Minister Jan-Dhan Yojana.In the village, there was a power connection in the house of a noble house, getting electricity connections in the poor house, then it was a surprise that even in my house darkness would go? Today, today under the Ujala scheme, every household has taken a big campaign to provide electricity connections in every home under good fortune, and in the coming year, there will be no house in Hindustan where there is no connection of electricity, electricity Do not be lute.There is a house, toilets in the house, electricity, drinking water, gas stove - in a way, an attempt is made to change radical changes in his life.And my dear brothers and sisters, you made me big. You people of Gujarat have raised me up. Gujarat has taught me a lot. And the result of what you have learned from me is that I am trying to fulfill dreams in a big way, and in 2022, when India's independence is 75 years, there should not be any family of this country with whom Do not own a house; Have dreamed of making such a Hindustan.Until now the news came that leaders had become big houses, till now the news came from the decorations of the houses of the leaders; Now news is coming out to become the home of the poor, now the news is coming from the decoration of the poor house.It is such a prime minister that when Vastu enters more than one lakh households and joining Valsad's land to join it, he joins the video conference with his family and enthusiasm and enthusiasm.Brothers and sisters, last week is a big pain for us. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji gone but the name of Prime Minister Gram Sadak Yojna, which has become his name, is also going on with the goal of connecting every village with a paved road to complete the time limit.Efforts are going on in a way to bring about radical change. Here you will have seen the skill development, opportunities for giving birth certificates to girls living in far-off tribal forests can be given opportunities to earn livelihood after skill development.The country can be liberated from problems in itself, dreams of normal human beings can be realized from the normal of the country and we are constantly trying to fulfill it.My brothers and sisters of Valsad, though my program was made to come here a few days ago, but due to the rain, the program had to cancel. And if the rain also comes this time it comes very loud, if it does not come, it stops for weeks. There was some problem in some areas in Gujarat and there was no water in some areas. But due to the rainfall in the last few days, the rain has been appreciated in many areas of Gujarat. The coming year will also be very good. I have full confidence that there will be a great benefit in the field of agriculture.All my dear brothers and sisters of all Valsad, you have been sitting in such a large number for so long; The less I express my gratitude.Thank you very much to all the mothers and sisters, giving very good luck to Rakshabandhan.