Governor of Gujarat, Mr. O.P. Chief Minister Shri Rupani ji, Deputy Chief Minister Shri Nitin Bhai, his cooperation of the Council of Ministers Mr. Bhupendra Jai ​​Chudasama, Mr. Pradeep Singh Jadeja, Director of Gujarat Forensic Science University Dr. J. All the great people, medal winners, their parents, and the Prime Minister's special guest, included in the M. Vyas Convocation, the children who came to school are my special guests.I also welcome many of you brothers and sisters in the Fourth Convocation of Forensic Science University of Gujarat. And I welcome this because no one can make a mistake that I am a guest here. First of all I congratulate those students on behalf of the students, who are getting the degree today and who are making an introduction of a very important journey ahead of their lives. I heartily congratulate the parents of all the students and other members of their family. Today, his beloved daughter and ladle son have reached this stage of success here only by their upbringing, their efforts and their hard work.I am particularly delighted to be at the Gujarat Forensic Sciences University. This university and the students studying here are pioneers. This is not a university that offers courses that are more talked about. Instead, the focus area is specific. Your road to Gandhinagar would not have been an easy one. When you planned to come here, I am sure people asked you are you sure, you want to do this? Are you watching too many crime related TV shows? Or, are you reading too many Agatha Christie or Feluda books? Yet, you persisted and selected a stream that is conventionally believed to be unconventional but highly important for today’s age. This shows that you not only believe in yourself but also are blessed with the power of determination to pursue your own dreams. This trait will always help you in the times to come. Friends, It is a matter of pride that in a short time, GFSU has achieved such a bench-mark of academic excellence that the National Assessment and Accreditation Council has awarded this University an ‘A’ Grade. I am glad that GFSU is among very few universities in India, to achieve this immediately after establishment. With Thirty-Five courses and Two-Thousand Two-Hundred Plus students, Gujarat Forensic Science University is engaged in teaching and research in different areas of Forensic Sciences. I congratulate the leadership, management, and faculty of GFSU for their energy and commitment, making this University the pride of Gujarat and India.Peers, Police, Forensic Science and Judiciary are all integral parts of criminal justice delivery system. The stronger the three organisms in any country, the more people there will be safe and criminal activities will remain under control. With the same thinking, the work of expanding these three pillars started in Gujarat in the last few years with a holistic approach. National Defense University, National Law University and Forensic Science University, ie, a complete holistic package related to law and order. The result of this is that there are qualified, trained students from the Defense Power University today, going to the various security forces to strengthen internal security. Are working to do National Law University and Forensic Science University are empowering youth, their skills, investigations and judicial process.The punishment will have to suffer. The fear of being caught and the fear of proving his crime in the court proves to be very helpful in controlling crime, and the role of Forensic Science becomes the most important. Surety of punishment also gives credence to the judicial system's credibility. I highly appreciate GFSU's fact that he is preparing a large pool of human resources internationally to strengthen the criminal investigation and justice delivery system. Not just India, but across the globe Law Enforcement Agencies are coming forward to ask for help from your university. Your university is getting a reputation at international level by helping many countries by providing training and consultancy to their people.I have been told that in the last five years Gujarat Forensic Science University has trained more than 6000 officers. In this, more than 700 police officers from more than 20 countries have also been trained here. And returning to their respective countries, the officers are now using their knowledge, and skill to keep their country and society safe today. It is a matter of great pride for all of you for every Gujaratite that a University on its ground is playing such a decisive role in Global Security on the strength of its training and education.Companions In this era of today, it is also very necessary that every new system keeps themselves in tune with modern technology. Definitely it is an important contributor to digital technology. Digital Technology has given new powers to Forensic Science. At first, all the tests, investigations would have to be done physically. Today digital technology has made these tasks easier and even precise. And I understand that there is a lot of scope to increase the use of new tools in the field to develop digital tools and this direction should be thought in more detail. Companions have worked on one side of the internet to simplify the lives of all of us, and on the other hand, a new kind of crime is born to cyber crime. This cyber crime is a challenge for the citizens of the country. Be our financial institution, be power stations, Hospitals also affect all such important organs as well. This is also a huge challenge for National Security, not only for Hindustan, every country of the world. Today, on this occasion, I urge all the cyber and digital experts to help empower the country and society by becoming a participant of Digital India Mission. To prevent cyber crime by the government, necessary steps have been taken to create fear among such criminals. Cyber ​​Forensic Labs have also been strengthened, but at the same time, there is a lot of need of experience expert like you who can help the investigating agencies to reach such criminals in a short time. With the changing times, not only crime, but also the importance of forensic science is increasing in different areas. Like an insurance sector, Insurance companies come to different types of people for their claim settlement. The big challenge for them is that the person who is claiming is genuine or not. Information about forensic science can help them. Similarly, if people working in the Health Sector have knowledge of Forensic Science then they will also work in keeping with the forensic needs. After an accident or after a crime, when a wounded person visits the hospital, he comes with a lot of forensic evidence. Those who work in health sector, to nurses, If better understanding of forensic science, then he can be of great help in saving this evidence. Developing the nuances of human intelligence for every student of Forensic Science is also very important. Some of you may have heard about here in Gujarat and Rajasthan especially the Pagi community. In Kutch and boulder areas, a Pagi community has been known for centuries for its human intelligence. As the camel's footprint shows that the camel was alone or with someone sitting on the rider or the luggage was with luggage and I had read somewhere that the Pagi community is there to develop five senses from childhood. Traditional training used to be in his kinab and so in some areas to help solve serious crimes, the police also call the people of this type of Pagi community and seek help from them. And I would like to tell the university and administration that never Sometimes all these things have been used in the world, used by human intelligence. Whether Forensic Science University is working on many topics. Traditionally, in our country, the tradition of forensic science university and old age, when first there was no digital technology, people mixed their finger print and gave their opinions. Hand writing was used to be used to give opinion, psychoanalysts used to make psycho profiles. Traditionally it was all these things. This is the traditional things that were in India and in every state, if it is collected by the Forensic Science University and how those traditional knowledge can be combined with modern technology, it can be taken on a new dimension, I think this is not only in India but in every country in the world there is such a kind of education. If that mode is used, then we can move these things very much forward. For example, psychoanalysis that creates psycho-profile. At some point in time, he used to decide by talking to his family members by asking and asking. Today it is through technology. Like traditional knowledge, plus technology has brought efficiency, brought perfection, I think our forensic science university research should also be an area of ​​research, how we can combine both traditional knowledge, human intelligence and modern technology Our university should also work in that direction. Do psychoanalysis. At some point in time, he used to decide by talking to his family members by asking and asking. Today it is through technology. Like traditional knowledge, plus technology has brought efficiency, brought perfection, I think our forensic science university research should also be an area of ​​research, how we can combine both traditional knowledge, human intelligence and modern technology Our university should also work in that direction. Do psychoanalysis. At some point in time, he used to decide by talking to his family members by asking and asking. Today it is through technology. Like traditional knowledge, plus technology has brought efficiency, brought perfection, I think our forensic science university research should also be an area of ​​research, how we can combine both traditional knowledge, human intelligence and modern technology Our university should also work in that direction.Friends, criminals and ways of committing crime are constantly changing. In order to deal with rapidly changing crime scenario, you also have to develop newer techniques to make it clear that criminals will not be spared. DNA profiling has established new dimensions in forensic investigation. With the help of this technology, many such cases have been resolved which would otherwise remain unsolved. I call upon forensic experts to help the judicial system by using DNA profiling as much as possible so that culprit get punished immediately and the victims get justice. Looking at the importance of DNA technology in forensic investigation, our government has approved the DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill 2018. Through this bill, we will ensure that all DNA tests remain reliable and the data is safe. The Government has also decided to strengthen DNA analysis labs in all the States and Union Territories. A State of the Art lab under the Nirbhaya scheme is being established at Central Forensic Science Laboratory, Chandigarh. I am confident that in the coming times, we will be able to deter the heinous crimes, including the crimes committed on women, speedily and accurately.Now that you have read in the newspapers in the past, a court in Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh sentenced two rapists, who raped a minor within the two-month trial, sentenced the execution of the monsters in just two months, before the middle In the Katni of the state, a court sentenced these monsters to death after just five days of trial. Even in Rajasthan, the courts have taken such a quick action. Forensic Science and experts like you can serve a lot in our courts at such a heinous crime as rap. Can create huge effects. The government tightened the law, Police investigated but Forensic Science gave a strong scientific support system to make the court decision quickly. Do not give this kind of speed in judicial procedures and escape from the criminals and I believe that your qualifications serve a lot of society in controlling even bigger serious crimes.The government is continuously working with colleagues to make forensic science more robust in every state of the country. Under the scheme of modernization of the country's police force in this episode, the government has also approved the proposal to upgrade Gujarat Forensic Science University. Work has been started at the international level and at the regional level for the establishment of a new institute of center and excellence. 300 crore rupees will be spent on this project, out of which 60 percent will be given by the Central Government. And I am happy that the Gujarat Government has also released about Rs 50 crore on its behalf for this project. This amount will be used to modernize and extend the forensic science techniques.Friends, you have selected a very appropriate subject to study. Some of the principles from the classrooms of Forensic Science will also help you in the classroom of life, though in different contexts. They taught you the Law of Individuality, never forget that principle in life too. Swami Vivekananda used to say each soul is potentially divine. This means each one of us, within ourselves, has tremendous strength that is just waiting to be explored. The first step towards manifesting this strength is to believe. Believe in yourself. Believe in your abilities. Believe in your potential. Locard taught you that the perpetrator of a crime will bring something into the crime scene and leave with something from it. I am sure you will always be solving crimes. But, do remember that each one of you students brings great value to our society as well. And, while adding value, do not forget to also learn from others. Keep your mind open to new ideas, views and opinions. Enrich the world with your thoughts and absorb the best that others have to offer. This diversity is what will make you a richer person. And, when I say Law of Progressive Change, while your mind would naturally go back to what you were taught, also think about the times to come. We live in a world that is rapidly changing in every sense. Cutting edge innovation is the corner-stone of our times. It does not take much time for a new idea to become old. People, and youngsters in particular are coming out with out of the box solutions in record time. Likewise, you too must be at the centre of the changing trends across the globe. Your education and intelligence has trained you to think out of the box. Ensure that you use these skills not only to keep pace with the changes around us but also to drive some of the progressive changes that make our world a better place. Generations to come will thank you for it. Friends, no scheme or initiative can be successful without the participation of youth. I am confident that the knowledge you have gained here will help you serve the country effectively and achieve professional success. I hope you shall continue to hold your Alma Mater in the highest esteem. I wish all the graduating students a bright and vibrant future.And in particular I was seeing today a boy with great difficulty, all the awards were taking daughters. See, this is the glitter of changing times. I especially congratulate those daughters and their parents and greet these daughters especially Rakshabandhan. Thanks a lot.