His Excellency President Museveni, his religion wife Janet Museveni and my dear brothers and sisters in large numbers.My relationship with you is the most affluent, I have a relationship of belonging. I am a part of my family. I am a member of this vast family, and in this way, my happiness increases my happiness by meeting with you. Today, the Hon'ble President is present here to give more peace to this gathering. His presence here is a symbol of his affluence towards hundreds of thousands of Hindus and thousands of Indians living in Uganda. And so I congratulate the President on behalf of the President, here I am here among all of you, then tomorrow I am going to have an opportunity to address the Parliament of Uganda. And two days ago in the Parliament of Delhi, you had heard the speech in detail, you heard people too, Uganda was listening to the whole. I'm very much obliged to you.For the first time, my dear brothers and sisters will get an opportunity to address the Parliament of Uganda to an Indian Prime Minister. For this honor, I want to express my gratitude to the President and the people of Ugandan people on behalf of the 50 million Hindus. Coming to Uganda and meeting you and meeting all the gentlemen has been the subject of happiness for any Hindustani, it has been a matter of happiness. Your enthusiasm, your affection, your love, your sense of humor continue to meet me like this, that is what I wish for you. Here is my second chance of coming among all of you in Uganda. Prior to this, 11 years ago, I came here as Chief Minister of Gujarat and today came as the Prime Minister of the country. Even when I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, even then many of you from whom I had the opportunity to make a living, had the opportunity to talk in full swing. Here also many familiar faces, I am looking forward and I am happy that the President was identifying each other. How close is the relationship with you to the people and today we used to mention many families in that name all day, used to tell how many years have known, how to know, were telling all things. This honor is the hard work you earned by your efforts, your conduct, your character. This capital is not small which you have found, and for this, three-three, four-four generations who came from India on the land of Uganda have added their relationship with this soil, have loved them. It is hard work done by your character. This capital is not small which you have found, and for this, three-three, four-four generations who came from India on the land of Uganda have added their relationship with this soil, have loved them. It is hard work done by your character. This capital is not small which you have found, and for this, three-three, four-four generations who came from India on the land of Uganda have added their relationship with this soil, have loved them.Companions India's relationship with Uganda is not of today. This relation is of the centuries. There is a relationship between labor, between us and the struggle against exploitation. Uganda is strengthening its fundamental right at the stage of development today, the blood of the Ugandan people and the persecution of the Ugandans is also the smell of sweat. Many of you are living with families where three-three, four-four generations. I want to remind the youth present here, Ugandan youth, the train you are traveling in today is also accelerating the relationship between India and Uganda. That was the period when both Ugandas and India were stacked with slavery in the same strength, then our ancestors were brought here from India. At the behest of a gun and a lamb they were forced to lay the railway line. In those difficult circumstances, those great souls fought together in Uganda's brothers and sisters. Uganda became free, But many of our ancestors decided to settle on this. Like sugar dissolves in milk, so are our people united, they become monotonous.Today you are giving your energy to all Uganda's development, business, arts, sports, all areas of society, spending your life. In the Jinja here, the bones of Mahatma Gandhi were immersed. Many Indians have made their active contribution in today's politics and are still giving it today. Late Narendra Bhai Patel was the first non european speaker in Independent Ugandan Parliament and his election was consensus. However, there was a time when even when everyone had to suffer, many people had to leave the country, but the Ugandan government and Ugandan people did not let them go from their hearts. I have specifically embraced President's life and the way the Ugandan people today have embraced the Indian community for this. I express my gratitude to the heart. Many of you are also those who have been born on this, Perhaps some people will not even have the chance to see India. There may also be some who have come to know about their roots in which state, who came from the state, which village or the city came from, it may not even be known. But still you have kept India alive in your hearts. One heart beat for Uganda is also for one India. In front of the world, you are the real ambassador of India, the ambassador of India. A while ago, when I was coming to the stage with President, I was seeing how cultural events were organized before my arrival. The way this spell-able Indian has really kept you, it is commendable in itself. Based on my earlier experience and today when I came here, I can say that Indian languages, food, culture and culture, In the multiplicity of family values ​​and the feelings of Vasudev Kutumbh, the examples are very similar to the way you are living, and therefore every Hindustani is proud of you, 125 billion people are proud of you. I also congratulate you. I bow to you.All the African countries, including fellow Ugandas, are very important for India. For one reason, Indians like you have a huge presence here and secondly we all have fought a common fight against slavery, thirdly, we have the unique challenges of development in front of all of us. We have a long history of sharing happiness and misery with each other. We all have learned something or something from each other. As well as supporting each other, they have given support. Even today, we are moving forward in the same spirit. We want strong defense relations with Uganda. According to the requirement of Uganda's forces, we are arranging for their training in India. Thousands of students from Uganda are studying in India these days. Much of your colleagues came to Uganda from India, there has been a lot of change in India and today's India. Today, as Uganda is growing rapidly in Africa, Similarly, India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. India's economy is accelerating the development of the whole world. 'Make in India' has become the identity of India today. Cars and smart phones made in India are selling many such things today to countries where we used to import this stuff in India. It is possible that in Uganda very soon, when you go to buy a smart phone, you will see the label 'Made in India'. More recently, the foundation of the world's largest mobile manufacturing company has been laid in India. India is fast becoming the hub of manufacturing for the world. Along with this, India has made a medium of empowerment, empowerment of people, to digital technology. All the work related to the government is available on a mobile phone. Maximum arrangements have been made from the birth of a child to the registration of death, Has been online Work on fast connecting every major panchayat of the country to broadband internet is going on fast. Today, from the needle, the rail tracks, the coach of the metro train and the satellite are made in India only with steel made in India. India is moving forward at a faster pace, not just manufacturing, but to become a start-up hub.In the world, wherever I go, I am reminding gentlemen like you that what kind of image of the country was first made in the world. The nation of snake charmers presented a glorious history of thousands of years, the same country was presented to the world like this. India is the snake charmer, the magic. That was not the identity? Our youth has changed this image, this assumption and made India the land of mouse or IT software. This is what happened today that India is launching thousands of start-ups for nation and world. You will be proud to know that there are about 11 thousand start-up registrars in the country within just two years. Our young people are innovating according to the needs of the country and the world. Finding solutions to the difficulties, peers today electricity has reached more than six lakh villages in India. Today there is no such village in India, Where electricity is not reached You can think of how easy it is to get electricity in India by ranking it with the rank of world bank. In the ranking of ease of getting electricity, India has jumped 82 places in the last four years. Today we have reached number two in the world. Only electricity is not available. But an effort is also being made to work on the expenditure of people's electricity bill by running a campaign. In the last four years, 100 million LED bulbs have been sold in the country. More than 100 Crore Companions There are many such changes in India, because there has been a huge change in the system and society. India is moving ahead with the resolution of New India. Because there has been a huge change in the system and society. India is moving ahead with the resolution of New India. Because there has been a huge change in the system and society. India is moving ahead with the resolution of New India. Because there has been a huge change in the system and society. India is moving ahead with the resolution of New India. Because there has been a huge change in the system and society. India is moving ahead with the resolution of New India.My colleagues, since becoming the Prime Minister, I was very eager to come here. Three years ago, when the President had come to India for India-Africa Summit, he had also given a sincere invitation, but for some reason the program could not be created. I admire that today I got the chance to see everyone. In the past four years, we have given special importance to our historical relationship with Africa. Today Africa plays an important role in India's foreign policy. In 2015, when we organized the India-Africa Firm Summit, we invited all the African countries for the first time. Before that there was a meeting with select countries, it was a matter of joy that not only did all countries accept our invitation, But the top leadership of 41 countries took part in the conference, they all came to Delhi. If we extended our hands, Africa also went ahead and embraced Hindustan. Took our hands. In the last four years, there is not one country in Africa where there is not a minimum ministerial level trip from India. President, There have been more than 20 visits to the Vice President and Prime Minister level. In addition to the India-Africa Firm Summit, 32 heads of state from Africa have come to India and met Indian leaders. We have decided to open our embassy in 18 countries. This will increase the number of our embassies in Africa to 47. Our cooperation has always been in Africa's social development and struggle. We are also actively participating in the development of the economy here. This is the reason why the annual meeting of the African Development Bank was held in India last year. Project for line of credit of more than three billion dollars has been approved for Africa. There is also a commitment of ten billion dollars under the India-Africa firm Summit. Apart from this, grant assistance of six hundred million dollars and for fifty thousand students in India studied it for scholarship We are also committed to it. India has provided e-visa for 33 countries of Africa, and the results of our strong commitment towards Africa are also being seen.India's trade with the countries of Africa last year has increased by 32 percent. To become a member of the international solar alliance, I had urged all African countries and after my call, there are about half of the country's members in Africa today. On the international forum, India has supported India in a voice from African countries. I believe that the presence of countries of Asia and Africa in the new world order is increasing day by day. In this direction, the mutual cooperation of countries like us will bring positive, positive change in the lives of millions of people. With the excitement and excitement you have taken all the time to come here today. I have given you affection, blessed, given respect I thank you very much for all of this. I congratulate the President on behalf of Ugandan government and people's mind. And you know, 2019 which is your brain is not in my mind. What are you thinking of 2019? What are you thinking In the month of January 2019, the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas is going to be held on January 22-23 and this time the place for the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas is Kashi, Banaras. And where the people made me prime minister, made the MP and the country made me prime minister, for that Kashi I have come to invite you. And it is also a matter of great pleasure that before the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas, Vibrant Gujarat Global Investors Summit is in Gujarat, it is also around 18,19,20, 22, 23 in Kashi and after 14 January the Kumbh Mela is commencing. So 22, Let us call 23 Pravasi Bharatiya Divas from Banaras to Kumbh Mela. Take a plunge in Prayag Raj and then on 26th January you come to Delhi, the entire package of one week is one for you in India after so many opportunities. I have come here today to invite my brothers and sisters of Uganda and also come to you. The love you have given you dearly, India's best wishes for you to progress. And your life here is contributing to the growth of India's gorget, we also feel proud for this. I once again thank you very much for all of you. Thanks a lot. We also feel proud for this. I once again thank you very much for all of you. Thanks a lot. We also feel proud for this. I once again thank you very much for all of you. Thanks a lot.