Infrastructure should be quality life, be governance, economic vibrancy, self-sufficient family, also how can all these aspects be developed by reconciling them together. Its beautiful model got to see me and our mind felt so much that it was late to get here.I am the first Prime Minister of India who has an opportunity to come here. But I am glad that a big business Delegation from India has come with me. It is proof that India is growing rapidly. But our mantra is everyone's development with all and therefore we grow, but whatever is going on in our company, help people grow and we will go together together. This is basically our imagination.Especially those people who have come from the Indian Business Forum I would like to say to them Do not think that you have just come to Rivanda. Today it is the situation that coming to Rwanda means that you open the doors of entire Africa because the key is here. Rwanda's models are discussed throughout Africa, their development is discussed. Their governance is discussed. In a way, there is a new mood in Africa and the President is lead him. Your coming here does not mean you are tied up to a country's border. If you go for value, you will see more opportunities and more challenges and more opportunities will also come. And I believe that you will not let this opportunity go.I see from yesterday that the President is in emotions. Good governance, development and progress of the people, prosperity of the people, peace of the society in the society. We are friendly to the people of India. It suits a lot with our nature.Now this country is such that when the world's attention was not here before Africa. Nobody thought it was here to come. At that time Hindustan preferred to come to this land. Now Gujarat is the family of Jodhpur. I think he came here in the end of the 19th century. And since then people of India have come here. The people are mixed with the lives of the people here. Here are the participants of Vikas Yatra. This is fine, the attention of the whole world is felt. The world wishes to come here. But when we came here we really needed it here. And today we want to move it forward. That we came to work together in the world. Still in the world who are behind Do something for those who do not get the opportunity. With that intention we are going into the world. People of the world are taking along. Together with the world, we want to work for the good of the land of the world.The President had come to Gujarat, he saw a lot of things in Gujarat, understood it. Whenever in India They have been interested in seeing some developing things. They see direct things, understand, invite people.The country's leader is so committed to development, understanding, accepting and proving new things, which have a tendency. I think there is never any obstruction to working in such a country. There are countless opportunities. And if you open a window then the other window will be visible. If you open the second one, then another palace will be seen. And you will go ahead, grow, will be found. These possibilities are clearly watching here. And so there is a similar possibility in India. People of such business in Rwanda, Even if they want to grow in India. India is ready to give them all kinds of facilities. I invite them. But I would urge the people of India to go in the direction of modernity of Rwanda. Whether it is Infrastructure or Rural Development, it should be economical activity. Small scale industries want to set up a network. Want to set up a network of cottage industries Here's a product that wants a global market. All these topics are such that in India's business enterprises can do a lot together.Made in India Movement is run in India. We can also share this Make In India Movement with Rwanda, connect with them. Through the International Solar Alliance, we are looking forward to tackling climate change issues, but how life has become affordable and how solar energy is employed. A huge campaign is being run on it. I want people from Rwanda to come forward Today was traveling with the President. We told the use of LED bulbIn India, the LED bulb has done so economically in the middle class people's, middle-class family. The electricity bill that was introduced today has come to the threshold of the forest. If we drive this LED bulb campaign in Rwanda, then people of the poor will be saved here. People of poor middle class will benefit. Due to the low energy requirement, the amount which is spent behind the plant for the energy can be reduced. The energy saving which we can use in the industry. Which goes on for domestic work today. That is, even a small thing can bring a big change. We can work together in this direction. There is a lot of possibility of dairy industry. There is a possibility of milk revolution. India has a Maharahr in it. By joining with him, Can work with them. That is, in one sense, whatever strength India has from the village to the nation level. India's strength is that of the industry. The business community of India that has the potential. We can use it in Rivanda's development. Rwanda is our friend country. If you look closely at everything here, then the people of India resemble the culture they live in. You will see yourself in everything. And where it is adopted, there should be democratic values, be transparent governance, be efficiencies, and committed leadership. How easy it is to work in that country, we can understand it well. And be committed leadership How easy it is to work in that country, we can understand it well. And be committed leadership How easy it is to work in that country, we can understand it well.I have landed from the airport yesterday, so far he has given us all the time. This is very rare. His whole government is with me, and it keeps on going in the countries of the world. But how should one-minute use. They should learn from the President I am very glad And once again I thank them and best of luck to you all.