All my colleagues of the Council of Ministers, all experienced experts, who are pushing the industrial life of India, all experienced experts who have strong IT professions, and our young generation associated with the field of IT, sit in the center of CSC in the village with great hopes. Our school, college students, students of various institutes, including IIT, are a matter of happiness for me, who is the most beloved of me, on this occasion, your B There is a chance to come.Our Minister Mr. Ravishankar was giving details of the work of the government, but I have not come between you for this work. Any person can move forward in his career, how much wealth he can get, and how much he can achieve his prestige. In a way, the dreams that you see in life, in front of your eyes, all dreams have come true with your self-effort, in spite of this, yearning for satisfaction in their mind, how can you find inner satisfaction? And we have experienced that after all realization and doing something for someone else, some attempts to live, at that time its satisfaction level increases very much.I was just listening to Mr. Azeem Prem ji in the opening film. When I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat in 2003-04 and used to visit me during that period, in relation to my business, he used to talk about any work with the government. But after that I have seen that whenever they have been meeting for the past 10-15 years, they never discuss their work of company, their corporate work, even once. If you are discussing the mission that you are working these days, you talk about education, talk about it and do so much by doing it as much as it does for your company. So I feel that at that age, on this teaching of age, we created such a big company in life, such a big success, journey, but getting satisfaction, from what we are doing right now It means that in the person's life, it is not that we are in the profession, Suppose if you are a doctor then does not serve anyone ... does, a scientist pays his life inside the laboratory and brings out something that is going to change the lives of generations to generation. It does not mean that it does not work for society. It does not mean that he had won for himself or was doing it for his own name, not living. He was doing it for the people, but in front of his eyes with his own hands, whatever he does in his presence, his satisfaction is different. And today, the satisfaction that today is the original inspiration is that every person, you see yourself too, take a look from your own life, see the happiness, some people do it, that I get satisfaction, I get pleasure from within I got energy, I got energy. A scientist spends his life inside the laboratory and brings out something that is going to change the life of the generation of generations. It does not mean that it does not work for society. It does not mean that he had won for himself or was doing it for his own name, not living. He was doing it for the people, but in front of his eyes with his own hands, whatever he does in his presence, his satisfaction is different. And today, the satisfaction that today is the original inspiration is that every person, you see yourself too, take a look from your own life, see the happiness, some people do it, that I get satisfaction, I get pleasure from within I got energy, I got energy. A scientist spends his life inside the laboratory and brings out something that is going to change the life of the generation of generations. It does not mean that it does not work for society. It does not mean that he had won for himself or was doing it for his own name, not living. He was doing it for the people, but in front of his eyes with his own hands, whatever he does in his presence, his satisfaction is different. And today, the satisfaction that today is the original inspiration is that every person, you see yourself too, take a look from your own life, see the happiness, some people do it, that I get satisfaction, I get pleasure from within I got energy, I got energy. Who does in his presence, his satisfaction is different. And today, the satisfaction that today is the original inspiration is that every person, you see yourself too, take a look from your own life, see the happiness, some people do it, that I get satisfaction, I get pleasure from within I got energy, I got energy. Who does in his presence, his satisfaction is different. And today, the satisfaction that today is the original inspiration is that every person, you see yourself too, take a look from your own life, see the happiness, some people do it, that I get satisfaction, I get pleasure from within I got energy, I got energy.We are hearing in the Ramayana that the squirrel also got involved with Ram in the formation of Ram Sethu. But a squirrel was inspired to join the sacred task by getting inspiration, but one can also have an attitude that if Ram ji is to be successful, God may also need a squirrel if the squirrel is added. Then success is achieved. How much government takes the initiative, how much the government spends, but unless the public is not part of it, there will be no partnership if we want the results we want, India can not wait. The world also does not want to see India waiting anymore. The world is also looking at this expectation to lead Hindustan India. If this is the world, then we too have to do our country in the same way. If he has to do then how does the change in the life of the common man of India come? The power I have, the power, the power, Can I use some of the experience that I can do for anyone? One thing is certain that there is a place where no one comes to poverty, if someone is hungry, then food is available. There are people who give it there too with a dedicated dedication. Where food goes, there is a situation like this, there is a institutional arrangement, arrangement, I will go, I will get it. The person who goes to him is not particularly concerned about who is going to give it. There is nothing conscious in the mind of the giver who came, who came. Why? Because he becomes a habit, someone comes, he eats food, he walks. But a poor man is standing at the door of a poor family, hungry, And a poor person divides his half roti by giving it. Both remember life throughout life. He gets satisfaction. Instead of things being done under the arrangement, we have all seen how big things change by self motivation. We are going from an airplane, there are some elderly people sitting next to us, drinking water, there is a bottle but it is not open, our attention goes, we open it immediately, we get satisfaction. That means enjoying living for someone else is something else.I have tried to develop a tradition that after becoming the Prime Minister, I used to do even when I was the Chief Minister, I went to a university's convocation, so I urge those who call me that somewhere in the vicinity of that university If you are a government school, poor children of slum, you will be my 50 special guests and they will be my 50 special guests and place them in that convocation, invite them, invite them, and invite them. They come. I keep in mind that children are reading, school, like their broken ones. But if you come to the convocation, then see that someone is coming up wearing a very big robe, wearing a cap and everybody is giving him a certificate, a dream comes alive inside him. One seed is sown that one day I will also go there and I will also get it. Maybe in class room, More than that happens to him. To say this is to say that we have something like that, which is why we can do so many things. I have been sitting here, my happiness is always a mark, and that too from my Chief Minister's time till now, I used to go for the development of Gujarat, to invest, industrialists used to meet this gentleman Neither in the relationship did he ask questions nor did he talk. He always used to say, what can be done in social work. Now this is the temperament which is the nature of the society, the country has great power and today it is why it is getting satisfaction and joy from joining this program. I'm a person connected to social media, so the information I get is served, I am not a victim of information, I search the information I want and because of that I get new things. And today the technology platform provides me, In it I have seen many children, many young people do so much, the groups of three people, four people will go to the group, saturday, sunday. Will go to the villages, go somewhere in the town, stay in the middle of the people, and teach them to children. That is, in the current generation of 25 to 40 between India, this instinct is emerging, it seems, but in this if collectivity is added, then it comes emerging as a force. Let us associate it with a mission somewhere. The structure does not need to be arranged. Join a mission, get a platform, it is flexible, everyone does it with their own will, but if they do, they will get deposited somewhere, if results get accumulated, then the change also starts to appear. . And it is certain that India's fate is in technology. The technology you have, He is sitting on the fatehad of India. How they can work together in combination with both of them. If one is a gardener, leave such a seed in the open field, the weather will be fine, the plant will also come out and even the flowers will come out, but nobody will go there and will not mind looking at him, but the same gardener will have a large organized way In this, the flowers of this color will be here, in this size of size, this will be here in the height, it will be here, it will look like this, doing so by doing those flowers, then the reason for the inspiration of everybody's visit to the garden Becomes car What? He has worked in a very organized way, worked under an arrangement. This is our scattered service power and I see these days an era of social startup has started. And the children who meet do not ask what they do, then they said, 'Yes, we have settled down.' I saw a boy in Bangalore who was in IT Profession, I saw somewhere in the social media, he is driving, said, I am driving three or four hours a day, why? I say, take the poor, work, help, I take the hospital, people, I like it.I have seen such auto-rickshaws, whose auto is written behind that if you have to go to the hospital then I will take it for free. My country's poor auto-rickshaw habits Suppose that on that day six people got him, who would take him to the hospital, his children would starve him, but he is not worried, he puts the board and does it honestly. So this fundamental nature is lying within the human being to do something for someone and that is - "I am not" That does not mean that I have to end, we have to expand. We have to travel towards collective self. After all, why does a person increase his reputation? Why experience joy between the elderly family? This large family, from my grand family, is my whole community, my whole country, it becomes a force in itself. Today, taking the spirit of service, it is the journey of IT to society, On one hand it is an IT to society and IIT to society is also. So we have to take that feeling and we have to walk. I would like to talk to seven-eight places and then start the conversation.In our country, the general image is such that abusing people, abusing businessmen, abusing industrialists, has become fashionable. I do not know why, I am surprised by it And I am against it. Everyone's contribution is made in making the country. If you see this today, you will know that all these companies, through their CSR, told their brilliant staff from all the arrangements that for five days you have to go for service, then go, your job will continue, not small things. There is a huge contribution in normal life. But today when one platform comes on, all eyes will be opened. Good people of our country are doing such a thing in every country of the country. This collective power of which is very large. I think that this is the basis for the inspiration. We, in this also, Self and Service, which is our angle, will play a huge role and you are the people of communication world, Technology are people of the world and you can easily prepare these things, its impact can be very much, the reach can also be very much and you are connected to things that are low cost. So the more we do, the more we will become the cause of inspiration. And our efforts will give maximum inspiration to the people, and where are the many flowers found, but if the bouquet is formed, then its joy is something else. I think the work of making a bouquet of these services is done today. Today, with this effort, by service, people who are self-employed, working in new areas, and they are also doing our younger generation. Bharat Mata would have been proud that within my country there were such flowers that continued to spread fragrance. Many people work to change life. The reach can be too much and you are connected to things that are low cost. So the more we do, the more we will become the cause of inspiration. And our efforts will give maximum inspiration to the people, and where are the many flowers found, but if the bouquet is formed, then its joy is something else. I think the work of making a bouquet of these services is done today. Today, with this effort, by service, people who are self-employed, working in new areas, and they are also doing our younger generation. Bharat Mata would have been proud that within my country there were such flowers that continued to spread fragrance. Many people work to change life. The reach can be too much and you are connected to things that are low cost. So the more we do, the more we will become the cause of inspiration. And our efforts will give maximum inspiration to the people, and where are the many flowers found, but if the bouquet is formed, then its joy is something else. I think the work of making a bouquet of these services is done today. Today, with this effort, by service, people who are self-employed, working in new areas, and they are also doing our younger generation. Bharat Mata would have been proud that within my country there were such flowers that continued to spread fragrance. Many people work to change life. We will become the reason for inspiration. And our efforts will give maximum inspiration to the people, and where are the many flowers found, but if the bouquet is formed, then its joy is something else. I think the work of making a bouquet of these services is done today. Today, with this effort, by service, people who are self-employed, working in new areas, and they are also doing our younger generation. Bharat Mata would have been proud that within my country there were such flowers that continued to spread fragrance. Many people work to change life. We will become the reason for inspiration. And our efforts will give maximum inspiration to the people, and where are the many flowers found, but if the bouquet is formed, then its joy is something else. I think the work of making a bouquet of these services is done today. Today, with this effort, by service, people who are self-employed, working in new areas, and they are also doing our younger generation. Bharat Mata would have been proud that within my country there were such flowers that continued to spread fragrance. Many people work to change life. People working in new areas and they are also doing our younger generation. Bharat Mata would have been proud that within my country there were such flowers that continued to spread fragrance. Many people work to change life. People working in new areas and they are also doing our younger generation. Bharat Mata would have been proud that within my country there were such flowers that continued to spread fragrance. Many people work to change life.I congratulate all those young people with heart, who have done this work with great interest, have done it very well. I congratulate all those companies that they have used their own systems for social responsibilities, along with their economic development, have used their talents. In our country, public participation is essential for the country to take forward. The hundred and fifty million people will decide to move forward, so there is no power in the world that can keep India behind. Hindustan has to come forward. The power of hundred and fifty million people has to come forward and go ahead in the right direction. Everyone does not get results from their own direction, they all go together in one direction, then by going, results come and I am a very optimistic person. With my little experience of four years, I can say that why did not the country go so far? This is the question for me, There is no question in my mind that the country will move forward or not? I believe that the country will move very far. By keeping all the challenges in the world, our country will continue to make its place. With this confidence, I thank everyone for planning this program. You all came in large numbers and I got an opportunity to talk to you all for a long time.Thanks a lot.Thank you!