Your Excellencies,President Cyril Ramaphosa,
President Temer,
President Putin,
President Xi Jinping,Today the world is on the crossroads with a variety of changes.The new industrial technology and digital interface the new world is building is also an opportunity, and also a challenge.New systems and products will open new ways of economic progress.People and human values ​​are always the most important in the center of development and progress. Therefore, we need to think seriously about the consequences of the fourth industrial revolution in the technology world, which would have a far-reaching impact on the public and the economy of countries like us.A welcome result of industry 4.0 (four point zero) will be more close contact. The World will be flatter Those who can benefit from it will be able to make more progress. Many deprived class technologies and development will be able to make big leaps across many states.But, it is difficult to say that increasing inequalities and fast changes will have an effect on society and on human values.Fourth Industrial Revolution will have more importance than the capital. High-skill but temporary work will be the new face of employment.There will be radical changes in industrial production, design, and manufacturing. Digital platforms, automation, and data-flows will reduce the importance of geographical distances. When digital platforms, e-commerce and marketplaces connect to such technologies, then a new type of industry and business leaders will come out.In the history of human history, it was never possible for them to lose control over the kind of wealth, resources and ideas that they can and control. We do not know what the outcome will be, but it is clear that whatever happens will be deep and serious.In this case, I believe that our discussion in the BRICS framework will help us prepare for the fourth industrial revolution.We should discuss how we can prepare ourselves well for the future.One important question will be the type of jobs and opportunities. As far as we can see, Traditional manufacturing will remain a major source of employment for our youth. On the other hand, it would be extremely important for our workers to bring about a change in their skills.Therefore, our approach and policies for education and skill development need to be changed rapidly.The school and university course will have to be created in such a way that it can prepare our youth for the future. We have to be very vigilant that the rapid changes in the field of technology can get place in the courses at a very low speed.In India, the National Skill Development Mission has been started for this purpose. Its aim is to provide relevant technical and vocational skills to our youth.The emphasis of our government is to ensure that women, men and all sections of society have equal access to affordable and quality technical, vocational and higher education.Excellencies,Proper utilization of new opportunities can make employers seeking employment on one hand. On the other hand, a strong system of social security will be mandatory for the job seekers.The portability of social security benefits will ensure the mobility of skilled workers in the digital age.Excellencies,Technological innovations can help to better service delivery, increase productivity levels and better management of labor issues.Our experience in India has been very positive in this case. An example of better delivery is through direct payment technology to the beneficiaries of labor laws, social security, health insurance and many government schemes.Technology has become the biggest disruptor in today's time. It is also hard to imagine the results of industry 4.0 (four point zero).With this kind of disruption, globalization and migration will have to be better managed through multilateral coordination and collaboration.Especially in the unorganized sector, skilled, semi-skilled and un-skilled, it will be even more important to provide social security to all workers.We are all familiar with the challenges of cyber security and the importance of working together to deal with them. Industry 4.0 (four point zero) will further increase these challenges and needs.India wants to work closely with BRICS countries on the subject of Fourth Industrial Revolution. In this regard we should meet together the best practices and policies.Keeping in mind the importance of technology changes in future and future BRICS countries and the entire world, I would like to suggest that our Ministerial Affairs should be considered in more detail. And get help from specialists as needed.Thank you all.