Hello!Radha Mohan Singh, my partner of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Yogi Adityanath, the popular and successful energy chief of Uttar Pradesh, Assistant Deputy Minister of the Government of Japan Takami Nakada, Israel's Ambassador in charge of the country Maya Kedosh, Agriculture Minister of Agriculture, other noblemen and UP My dear farmers, sisters and brothers from corner-corner!There is still a few months left for the Semi Kumbha which takes place in Prayagraj. But another Aquarius on the soil of UP has started from today. About 50 thousand farmers from different villages of UP, scientists, entrepreneurs from abroad and abroad, are becoming part of this farming Aquarium in Lucknow. I greet you all, welcome. And as a UP MP, it also becomes my duty to make some efforts for your development journey by becoming a partner of your happiness.A few months ago, during the Agricultural Upgradation Fair, I had advised to set up a large Kisan Fair. Today, we are looking at this as an agro-plantation. I congratulate Yogi Ji and his whole team for this excellent effort. I would also like to thank the governments of Israel and Japan who are our partners in this event. On the other hand Haryana, which is participating in the form of partner state, is also going to benefit greatly from this event.Whenever the companions, the Aquarius word joins an event, its importance becomes more extensive. Aquarius is an inexhaustible inter-flow of humanity, thought, discussion. I believe that this tradition will fulfill this kind of farm kumbha and in the next three days will open a new path to technology and other opportunities to improve the agriculture sector.Companions, I have been told that about 200 stalls have been installed in this fair, in which farmers are being given new techniques, new machines related to agriculture have been kept there. I believe that the farmers who come here will benefit from this and in addition to increasing the production, the farmers will also be helped to ensure quality.Peers, the kharif season is going to be almost complete across the country. All the farmers, siblings are very busy nowadays. This time it is also expected to record production. UP is the place where hard working farmers produce about 20 percent of the country's foodgrains. Therefore, I congratulate all of you for this. Shopping for all crops including paddy and pulses is going on today. I have been told that extensive arrangements have also been made for it in many parts of the state. This time, the value the farmers are getting is getting on the basis of new support price.All of you are aware that the government has increased historically in the support price of 21 crops of Rabi and Kharif.The cost of these crops is now A minimum of 50 percent has been given directly to the farmer.Farmers of UP, where the farmers are making record of production, Yogi's government is breaking records of procurement from farmers. And so I congratulate the government of Yogi ji. In this case, about 50-55 lakh metric tonnes of wheat has been purchased in the case of wheat. Whereas in earlier government this procurement was only 7-8 lakh metric tons. That is, the government of Bharatiya Janata Party Yogi ji was worried about getting the right price by paying around 7-8 times the farmers. Not only this, this shopping has been done directly by the farmers through e-earning technique, which has helped in removing the middlemen.Companions, these changes are not only in the purchase of paddy and wheat, but the change is also visible in the process of purchase of sugarcane. Farmers have been paid more than Rs 27 thousand crores of this season. Not only that, about 11 thousand crore rupees have been given to the farmers of the last dues. I am told that the Yogi government is trying to get back the dues which are owed on sugar mills too.I am also happy to know that the UPA Government has also decided to purchase potatoes for the first time. This will surely benefit the farmers who had problems in getting the proper value of potato.These efforts are part of the commitment of the Central Government, in which the village and the farmer have become an integral part of our economic thinking. It is our clear fact that no one brings the farmer forward, but the farmer takes the country forward. This is the reason that the government is working with complete integrity rather than the old thinking of working in pieces on agriculture and farmers' issues. Our focus is on removing the small difficulties of the farmers.Companions will be 75 years of independence till 2022, when the income of the farmer of the country is doubled. For this, the government is determined. For increasing the income of the farmers, going on the policy of low cost, more profit, there is an unprecedented inclusion of scientific methods. is. A robust arrangement from seed to market is being prepared in the country. Several steps are being taken to improve the health of Mithi to the mandis. More than 16 million Soil Health Cards have been given to the farmers across the country, out of which around 3 crore have been distributed here in UP. This makes it easier for the farmers to decide which crop will be suitable for that soil and which quantity of fertilizer is necessary.In order to maintain its fertile strength along with companions, soil quality, organic formulation is being encouraged, farmers are encouraged to use more of the compost which is made from waste. But adequate availability of fertilizer such as urea has also been ensured for the production of the country according to the requirements. The irrigation system is also being strengthened. The new technique of irrigation is being promoted as well as new irrigation projects. Per Drop, More Crop How does the crop benefit from each drop? For Drop Drop, More Crop, farmers are being encouraged. Scientific methods like drip irrigation, sprinkler irrigation, i.e. drip irrigation, micro irrigation system, are becoming part of our irrigation system.Israel is well-known in these new ways of irrigation. At the same time, Japan has been working very broad in terms of agriculture-related technology. Therefore, being a partner of this farm kumbh, you, the entire country, will be benefiting from the expertise of these two countries.Along with this, we are rapidly moving towards transforming electricity and diesel powered pumps into solar pumps. In addition to these arrangements, a large amount of irrigation is our pumps, so too big efforts are being made on its behalf. An extensive campaign to replace these pumps running on electricity or diesel with solar powered solar pumps is in progress. Under this, in the coming four years, solar pumps are to be planted in the fields of about 28 lakh farmers across the country. This will give free power to the farmers, secondly, they will also be able to sell power to the electricity distribution companies which are generating electricity. .Companions, at one time yesterday that our farmer was an Annadar, there has also been a possibility of becoming a energy conservator. He is also the food adder, he will also become the energy keeper. Friends, when I went to Gujarat a few days ago, when I went to Gujarat a few days before witnessing how much change was going on in this life of peasants, in some villages, a farmer's family started work on solar panels and solar pumps inside the village. . When the sun began to generate electricity from the rays, it used to run its farm, the pump ran. With this the need of their power was fulfilled, together they are earning about 50 thousand rupees per year by selling electricity.The Government has made serious efforts for the benefit of the peasants, the farmers to get the benefit of science directly. Work is being done to directly connect farmers and scientists with research centers. So that whatever new research is related to farming, it is connected to seed, its right information can reach the farmers in the shortest possible time. For this, about 700 agricultural science centers across the country have also been given a bigger role. Modern institutions related to research on agriculture are being prepared. The Rice Research Center, built in Varanasi, is also a great effort in this direction. The government has taken big steps for Value Addition to get higher prices for the crop. The government has decided to set up 100 percent FDI in Food Processing Sector.We also know that tomatoes sell cheap but sell tomatoes soup and fill in bottle and get more money. Rice mangoes get less money but by selling the raw mango pickle, you get more money. Green chillies get less money but by making a pound of chillies, they get more money. This is Value Addition. Apart from this, the TOP scheme was also announced in the budget of Rs. 500 crores for the value addition related to the production of tomatoes, onions and potatoes. This will also give a lot of benefit to the potato farmers of UP. This has opened the way for investment in agriculture, which has a huge advantage to Uttar Pradesh. I have been told that there was a proposal for investment of about 16 thousand crores in the price increase in the Agriculture Production Sector in the UP Investors Summit. Out of this, 14 projects worth Rs.33 crores have been released.In addition to the successful use of Green Revolution, we are now in the process of creating White Revolution, Sweet Revolution, Blue Ruelos have come out on new paths. The production of milk production, honey production, egg or fish production, the country is making new records.Two days earlier, the Indian government has taken a very big decision for the farmers belonging to the production of fish, fishermen and siblings. . The government has approved a new fund of 7.7 billion rupees.Companions, you are an important part of all the farmers, agriculture experts, scientists, and the Indian economy present in this agricultural Aquarium. Because whatever you are doing, it is going to have a huge impact on the fast growing economic power in the coming time. I expect you to sit with the farmers in this Kumbh Kumbh and have a deep churn on farming techniques. How to use less manure, how less water is used, how to improve the harvesting of crops, how to use robotic and drone techniques, how to make effective use of farming, there are many topics which need more work. .Apart from Parli, which is seen as a waste, how can it be converted into Wealth through the new technology, the waste can also be made of Kanchan. There is nothing shortage under the field, not even before the crop, even after harvest. Everything in the farm is gold. If a farmer uses it as a zohari then one thing in his farm will not be wasted. Garbage can also become Kanchan, wealth can also be created in waste. There is also a need to work in a broader way. The government is now giving discounts of 50 to 80 percent for the machines to stop farmers from burning. But we will have to move towards some concrete measures based on technology that will eliminate the compulsion of burning our farmers in front of our farmers and also protect the environment.I am confident that you will think about these issues to make agriculture profitable during the coming three days, and how Value Addition should be there. In particular, in different districts of UP, there will be discussions about how new experiments can be made according to the need.These Krishi Kumbh will give a new direction to the agriculture system along with the UP as well, with great desire, once again, many of you best wishes.Thanks a lot!