All dear brothers and sisters coming from different corners of the country.I am a MP from Uttar Pradesh and therefore, firstly, as a representative of Uttar Pradesh, I welcome you all with heart. You are from different corners of the country, I am sure that you have enjoyed this historic city, its hospitality and Lakhnavi accent. Friends, all of you are adopting this change, the things that are going on the ground. Be a mayor, a commissioner or a CEO; You are the representative of the cities of the country which are a symbol of the hope and aspirations of the new century, the new India and the new generation. For the past three years, you have come together with the shoulder to fulfill the dreams of millions of countrymen.I got an opportunity to see the exhibition which I had been here some time ago. There was information about the ongoing projects in the country. Some of the best performing cities in the Smart City Mission have been rewarded. Apart from this, some siblings and daughters were handed the keys of their own houses and the glow on their face when the keys were found, the confidence of the bright future was reflected in their eyes, it is a great inspiration for all of us .Many such beneficiaries got an opportunity to talk to me before coming to the stage here. These opportunities to change the lives of the poor, homeless siblings of the country and changing; This is really a great satisfying experience in life. All the citizens of the cities who have received the prizes, and those who have got their home, have congratulated me on behalf of all those families, very good luck.But you must have done the mark when I was giving the award, everybody was coming, I did not mark it; There are only two male mayors, the rest of the women are Mayere. The jihad with which our sisters have done this work;Sethios, the poor of the city, the campaign to give a homeless home, the work of a hundred smart cities or 500 AMRUT cities; Our resolve to make life simple, easy and secure to millions of people has become stronger every three years. Even today, a lot of schemes have been laid down for smart cities in Uttar Pradesh and I have been told that under the smart city mission, work on plans of more than seven thousand crore rupees across the country has been completed and 52 thousand crore Work on schemes more than Rs. Is running at a fast pace. The goal of this mission is to make the lives of poor, low-middle-class and middle-class people living in cities, give them better civil facilities. Integrated command centers to deliver these features in Smart City; This is like his soul; From here the arrangements for the entire city are to be operated,In the eleven cities selected under the Mission, integrated command and control centers have started functioning in 11 cities and in the next few months, efforts are being made to complete 50 more cities. These efforts have started to give results and I have been told that in some circumstances, in the last two quarters, there has been a significant reduction in crime rate in the last two quarters of the system of technology in Rajkot city of Gujarat. Due to the monitoring of CCTV cameras, there has been a reduction in the number of trends in spreading the mess and burning garbage in the public place.The increase in property tax collection has been noticed in Bhopal. BRTS corridor in Ahmedabad- The number of people traveling in buses with free Wi-Fi has started increasing automatically. Buses from CCTV and GPS in Vishapatnam are being tracked online. In Pune, emergency call bells have been installed at almost hundred hundred places], where information is given to nearby police station from pressing a button. Many such arrangements have started working today. Under the Smart City Mission very soon, Uttar Pradesh's Agra, Kanpur, Allahabad, Aligarh, Varanasi, Jhansi, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Moradabad and these are our Lucknow; In such facilities, you will start getting benefit of it.Brothers and Sisters Transforming the landscape of Urban India, our mission and Lucknow have a close relationship. Lucknow city has been working as the great benefactor of the country's urban life, Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji. Our inspiration source and former prime minister of the country, Mr. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji has been a long time parliamentary area. Nowadays, the health of Atal ji is not good. The whole country is keen to be healthy soon. But on the basis of the motivation that Atalji had taken, our government, crores of Hindustani people are moving forward with it at a fast pace.Sathiyo, Atalji, in a way, made Lucknow a laboratory for the improvement of urban life of the country. Today, you see the road connecting almost 1000 villages around Lucknow to Lucknow, which are coming here, which are coming up in Lucknow, the bio technology park, the scientific convention centers, which are coming here. Such work was done in Lucknow as his MP, his vision was; The result is that. Today the Metro is either running in 12 cities in the country or it is going to start soon. Here the work of expansion of Metro is also underway in Lucknow. Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji was the first to bring this system into a major change in urban transport. The success of the Delhi Metro is being repeated today.Sathiyo, Atalji used to say that neither old nor old will get new. He said this in the context of old and new Lucknow. That's our AMRUT today and his name is also associated with Atalji; This 'Amrit' which we are saying is 'Amrit Yojana' - its full word is Atal Mission for rejuvenation and urban transformation, and it is our inspiration for the Smart City Mission.With the same thinking, decades old arrangements are being improved in many cities. These cities are being encouraged to arrange sewerage, drinking water, improving street lights, arranging beautification of lake, pond and parks.Sathiyo, the plans for giving home to poor, homeless siblings who are living openly in the slums of the city are going on, and it was also started by Atalji. In year 2001, the Balmiki-Ambedkar housing scheme was started by Atalji in the country. Here, in Lucknow only 10 thousand brothers and sisters got their house under this scheme. The spirit in the core of the schemes that are going on today is the same, but we are trying to take the speed, scale and quality of living to a different level. The government is trying to provide roof over every head till 2022. When 75 years of independence, then there should not be any family in Hindustan, which does not have its own house.Keeping this in mind, 54 lakh houses have been sanctioned in urban areas in the last three years. Not only in cities, in villages, more than one crore houses have been handed over to the public. Houses that are built today have toilets; there is electricity under good luck, LED bulbs have also been installed under Ujala; That is, they are getting a complete package. The government has been providing interest relief to these houses, now the area of ​​the houses has been increased even further than the earlier.Friends, the houses which are being given are not just roofs on the head of the poor homeless but this is a living proof of empowerment of women. The houses which are being given under the Prime Minister's Housing Scheme are being given in the name of mothers and sisters. Under this scheme, about 87 lakh houses have been registered in the name of women or in partnership. Otherwise how was our social order- go to any family, on whose name the land was named, in the name of the husband, in the name of the father, son's name On whose name the house is in the name of the husband, in the name of the son On whose name the son of a scooter was brought; There is nothing in the name of that woman.We have changed the situation. And before that he used to go to our place - now, who will go through the street, he will not ask who is the master of the house, but he will ask who is the owner of this house? These changes are going to come in the thinking of society.I congratulate Yogiji and his government that they are pushing this scheme to raise the living standard of the poor at a fast pace. Otherwise, I have the experience of the government before me. After 2014, how are the days till the Yogi comes, I know well and I remind the people repeatedly. How do we have to write letters to the center for the poor's house, whenever we want to meet, we had to talk - Hey brother do something, we are ready to pay. They had to insist. But those governments were like this, they were like that too. He was not ready to leave his work-tradition. He was one point programme, to decorate his bungalow. Now, if it is vacant, then it will become the house of the poor.Today, one more thing is to say, and Uttar Pradesh has made me a MP, then I should share this with the people of Uttar Pradesh because you have the right. You have heard that an allegation has been imposed on me these days. And the accusation is that I am not a watchman, I am a partner.But my Uttar Pradesh brothers and sisters and my countrymen, I consider this accusation a bribe and I am proud that I am a partner. I am a part of the misery of the poor of the country, I am a partner of working laborers, I am a partner of all the sad moms. I am the partner of the pain of the mother who worsens her eyes and health in the fumes of wood and cow dung in the stove. I want to change the stove of every mother.I am a partner of the pain of the farmer whose crop gets wasted in water or in water and he becomes desperate. I am a partner to protect the farmer.I am a partner, the passion of those brave soldiers who are willing to do everything for the sake of our safety in the desert, by burning the skin of Jaisalmer and Kutch by taking the Siachen and Kargil bones from the throats of cold water.I am a partner, the pain of the poor family who is forced to sell his land in the treatment of a sick person in his house. I think for that family and work for her service.I am a partner, I am a participant of the effort which is because the poor have roofs on their heads, they get home, they get toilets in that house, get clean water to drink, get electricity. If they get sick, they get cheap medicines and treatment, children get education.I am a participant, the effort by which our youth get the skills, jobs, help them in their employment. I would like to see the ordinary citizens wearing our slippers get the air travel facility.I am proud that I am a partner, as I am proud that I am the son of a poor mother. Poverty has given me honesty and courage. Poverty has taught me to live life. I have taken the poison of poverty, I have seen the suffering of the poor. It is said to us here- 'Whose feet are not screwed, so what can you do?' The person who has experienced, knows the problem and knows the solution related to the land of distress.Earlier, I was also accused of being Chyala, how can I be the Prime Minister of my country? But those people can not take these decisions, the decision will be taken by the people of the 500 million people of this country. Friends, those who humiliate the participants, the same thinking is the result of the same thinking in the root of the problems of our cities today, it seems to be the same.We also had inspirations for smart cities and people who were also interested. The old cities found in excavation today are examples of how our ancestors used to make cities. In that era, centuries ago, there is also a type of paradox of the smart city of that era and has been a craftsman too. But the will of the political will and lack of complete thinking made a big loss.After independence, when the responsibility of building a nation with renewed renewal was on our shoulders, when there was no pressure of population; Then there was a great opportunity for our cities to be settled according to future needs. If the problems were not there at that time today, if at that time the plan-work had to be done, then the troubles which are facing today will not have to be tolerated. But randomly the cities were allowed to spread to whichever area it was spreading. Go, look, fill my house, you go somewhere. In a way, a forest of concrete was allowed to grow. The result is that every city of India is suffering today.Friends, a whole generation has struggled with these chaos, and somewhere two or two, three or three generations have gone out and the other is carrying a burden of bitter experiences. More knowledgeable people are expecting and they are going to go that today with the growth of about seven and a half percent, India is going to grow faster in the coming years. In such a way that the share of the country which has more than 65 percent stake in GDP, which is a growth engine, if it remains chaotic, then we can predict which obstacles will be standing and hence it is mandatory to organize these arrangements. is.Hanging wire, dirty water sewing sewer, traffic jams taking up to hours; Such inconsistencies can not define the 21st century India. With the same thought, the foundation of this mission was laid three years ago. 100 cities of the country were chosen for it and it was decided that they would have been developed with investment of more than two lakh crores. Development is also such that where the body is new but the soul is the same, the culture will be identified; Smartness, this will be his life. On developing such a vibrant city, we are moving forward at a faster pace.For the sake of our government, Smart City is not just a project but it is a mission for us. Mission to transformation, mission to transform, mission to transform the nation, these missions will prepare our cities to deal with New India's new challenges. 21st Century India will set up world-class intelligent urban centers. They represent the aspirations of the youth of the country who just want better but not the best. It is our responsibility, it is our commitment that future arrangements for this generation will be created. Here life should be based on Five E and Five E ie Easy of Living, Education, Employment, Economy and Entertainment.And whenever I talk to a municipal commissioner or a CEO with a city like me like a mayor, a new hope comes out. The framework of the process of smart city mission is the public-participation, public-aspiration and public-obligation; Based on all these three Such plans should be started in your city, the people of the city themselves have decided. Their thoughts have become the basis of the smart city vision of the cities and they are working on high speed today.I am also happy that not only are the new arrangements being made here but alternative arrangements of funding are also being done. Pune, Hyderabad and Indore raised around Rs 5,500 crore through municipal bonds. Now this process is going to be started in Lucknow and Ghaziabad very soon. They will also work to reduce economic dependence on municipal bonds governments. My other cities are also urged to come forward for this kind of initiative.Friends, cities are smart, connecting with the system's technology, they are ensuring ease of living. Today you can experience how services are online, due to which the general public no longer has to stand in line. These lines were also the root cause of corruption. Today you have to pay a bill, apply for any facility, require a certificate, or many facilities like scholarship, pension, provident fund are online today; That is, today the governance is becoming smart, which ensures transparency. And due to this there is a huge reduction in corruption.Friends, smart, safe, sustainable and transparent arrangements are bringing changes in the lives of millions of people in the country. This system is being created for everyone. There is no such limitations in the low-lying, pant, community, small-scale, nor is it the basis; Just and only development, this is only a mantra. There is no difference, no discrimination. All this can be possible with the participation of the people, participation of states, local bodies participation. 'All with development' and Team India's spirit is to prove the resolve of New India.And when I was talking to Yogiji today, he told a good news. Look, there are some things in this country that if we trust the citizens of our country, how can we do wonderful work. And unfortunately, the first leaders used to remember the citizens when they were voting. If we really look at the power and goodwill of the citizens and how to interfere with it, the results of the Yogi were telling me. You know I had once told Red Fort on August 15 that if you earn, what is kept in the subsidy of a gas, why take it subsidy of gas? Subsidy in this country has been associated with politics; nobody dares to say such thing; We and the country should be proud that nearly twenty-five million families left the gas subsidy.Now he talked to Lalkis but talk about the mood of the country- Railway people have created a column in their own reservation form, now has created a new column, just a few months ago. Have not even advertised much, have written the same way. And in that we know that the senior citizens who travel in the railway get a concession, subsidies are available. What do you earn, nothing, you have got so much of your age that you will get these benefits. He wrote that if you earn, you earn, and if you want to leave this subsidy, mark this in this column. I was happy to know- there is no advertiser in such a short time, no statement of any leader, nothing; More than 40 lakh people of this country left their subsidy for traveling to the railway; This is not a small issue.Today, Yogi told me that in Uttar Pradesh people who had received accommodation in the villages, changed the economic condition of some people, and some people went to some cities to go there to earn livelihood, then settled there. And the Uttar Pradesh government requested the people that if your situation has changed and you have a house given to the first government; If you return the house to the government then we want to allocate to a poor. I am so happy that 46 thousand (forty six thousand) people of my Uttar Pradesh villages have returned home. This is not a small issueThere was such a mentality in our country that just as everybody is a thief, all will do it. It is no need, we need to trust the citizens of the country, more power than us to run the country is in our countrymen, we must have faith in this. How to change the country, people are coming forward, an honest atmosphere is created. Now more people are coming to pay tax than ever before. If amenities are seen inside the city then people are getting ready to pay taxes. He is confident that the pie-pie will be spent in the right place, if not spent on the bungalows, the common man of the country has been ready to pay the money.And so once again all of you once again for all this mission, the work that you have done and all the greatness that our country has come from the municipal corporation. I am confident that next time more cities will come forward, those who have gone ahead have come out but new people will come forward. Capacity has increased in new cities, give leadership. Be there the commissioner of the place, there may be the mayor, there are the CEOs - just decide on a target. I am waiting to honor you too. Now give me a chance to honor you. I invite all the cities of India, I want to honor you with respect, let me give you an opportunity to respect you, so do the best thing.Then once again, those who are successful will be very happy, very good luck to those who try for success.Thanks a lot.