Ladies and gentlemenLord Shiva's beloved month has begun. In different parts of the country, the devotees of Bhola have come out with Kawand. In a way, there is a festival atmosphere from today to Diwali, and for the festivals, I congratulate all of you and the countrymen and many very good wishes.In addition to the festival, along with the festival, good rainfall is also happening in large parts of the country. For the sake of the season, for the cultivation, the economy is full of expectations, but due to heavy rains people are suffering in some parts of the country. The government is keeping an eye on every situation. Together with the State Governments, we are making every effort to reach out to the distressed people of every country.As a sensitive government, being a sensitive government, to remove the life of the common man from crisis, making it simple and easy, I believe that the state has the primary responsibility and our only goal is to do the same. In the last four years, we have been moving forward with this thought continuously and mobilization in Lucknow's auditorium is also a part of this link. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to come to Lucknow from the program organized to make urban life smart and convenient. I also got the opportunity to lay the foundation of many important projects related to cities and cities of Uttar Pradesh and the key to poor homeless siblings in their own house. And I am glad that today we are all in the direction of transforming the corner-corner of Uttar Pradesh and bringing the changes together, to resolve and move forward.This is the second time I have been meeting here in Lucknow for the second time in five months with associates associated with the industry, before that I had come for the UP Investor Summit in February. And I have been informed that during that summit in UP Intention was made to invest more than four lakh crores. And I'm glad that a huge step is being taken in that link to bring that resolution to the ground today.Our Satish ji did not know why he was speaking out of hesitation today. With great humility and conscience, it was saying that sixty thousand, just sixty thousand. You are hungry, I feel good, but I've come to the Chief Minister for a long time and come from a state connected with industrial activity. 60 thousand less is not less, 60 thousand crore is very big. You have no idea how big you have achieved.I congratulate the officers here. You have done this imaginable work. I know what kind of things happen in capital investment Let's go to paper in a courtroom, work gets stuck for two to two years. If you go to the environment, you sit up and the gun of a newspaper goes up; Subhash ji, then the government is also afraid to give it work or not; Do not let it happen, because people of the rivalry group play different games. After passing all these crises, bringing the momentum within within five months, the work of capital investment of 60 thousand crore rupees is a start, this is a wonderful success. I feel so I am saying. Your whole team, the whole team is very much congratulatory. I will congratulate those farmers, who have land where land requirement will be required. I have those little children, even the patwari of that, that too would have not come in the way, Then it must have happened The country can either run the prime minister or run the patwari. And so it is the leadership's success that in such a short time, from Chief Minister to Patwari, all the teams are moving forward in a similar direction.I am happy that you have not left all these things on the whim of any individual. You have created a policy for different sectors, put things in black and white, anybody can see it online and whatever it will feel, I can fit myself in it, it will come. This policy driven state, it is the biggest achievement of Uttar Pradesh. And so please do not underestimate these 60 thousand, sixty thousand crore. You have achieved amazing achievements. Because I have come to this work for a long time, I know how hard it takes, how much initiative has to be taken, how much has to be pursued, and how much abuse it has to do. But if there is a commitment to the state, then the paths also go out.The second happiness is, if the air is filled with enough points in the tube of the cycling tube, then the cycle runs, but sometimes the tube gets blown in a corner, the balloon becomes. If you see the meter now then the meter will look okay, yes so much air is gone, but that cycle does not make it, that air becomes a blockage. I am happy that in Uttar Pradesh, the Chief Minister has taken note of all-round development. All the lands of Uttar Pradesh get opportunity, balanced development. Balanced development is a very big requirement of Uttar Pradesh. Noida alone will go up from the world of Ghaziabad, but the needs of Uttar Pradesh will not be fulfilled. And the way the work is done and today I'm glad that all the things are nicely told here in front of the public. All these initiatives I understand are worthy of congratulations.Some people are calling it a groundbreaking ceremony. Though the tradition is the same, but after seeing all these, I say, this is a record breaking ceremony. In such a short time the way the processes have been carried forward faster, the old ways have been changed; In Uttar Pradesh, I do not believe that any person of the first can rise and say; Which is the belief that is born today. For this, there are absolutely new things in this administration-governance. And I am happy that under the leadership of Yogi, the government has kept the interaction with the investors continuously and created the atmosphere to change intent to invest in. Online MoU, tracker or investment for clearances, like a friend, such as a single window digital platform, This reflects the changed work culture and favorable environment for business in UP. It was a time when people used to believe in investment in UP. Today, that challenge is emerging as opportunities. Opportunities should be of employment, of business, of good roads, of sufficient power, of better present and bright future; Today's event is a symbol of growing trust on UP, a symbol of elevation, symbolizing UP's development. I hope the speed with which you are moving forward will not take much time in Uttar Pradesh to overcome the economic challenge of a trillion dollar, it says my soul. The Uttar Pradesh Government gives you all the congratulations of the industry to the great congratulations and best wishes for this commitment. Today's event is a symbol of growing trust on UP, a symbol of elevation, symbolizing UP's development. I hope the speed with which you are moving forward will not take much time in Uttar Pradesh to overcome the economic challenge of a trillion dollar, it says my soul. The Uttar Pradesh Government gives you all the congratulations of the industry to the great congratulations and best wishes for this commitment. Today's event is a symbol of growing trust on UP, a symbol of elevation, symbolizing UP's development. I hope the speed with which you are moving forward will not take much time in Uttar Pradesh to overcome the economic challenge of a trillion dollar, it says my soul. The Uttar Pradesh Government gives you all the congratulations of the industry to the great congratulations and best wishes for this commitment.We are not those people who are afraid of standing next to the industrialists, or else you have seen some people, you can not take a photo of them with an industrialist. But the industrialist of a country is not like that who has not gone to their homes and performed prostration. These Amar Singhs are sitting here, they will remove them, they will remove the history. But when the principles are clear, the intentions are good, then standing with anyone does not seem to be stain. He was never ashamed of living as a life of Mahatma Gandhi in Birla's household. He was never hesitant to stand in front of Birla, he was clear. Those who do not want to meet in the public, do everything behind the curtain, they are afraid. If a farmer's hard work works in making India, hard work of an artisan, a banker-financier works hard, the work of a government's humble work, A laborer's hard work; However, the industrialists of the country also have a role in building the country. We will humiliate them, thieves will say the robbers, what is this method. Yes, whoever does wrong, he will have to leave the country or have to go away or he will have to spend life in the jails. But this did not happen earlier because there was a lot of things before the screen. In whose ship people roam, do not know what.And therefore, to further the country, more cooperation is needed with everyone. And respecting the hundred and a hundred million citizens of the country, it is the responsibility of all the people of India. The projects which have started today, in which more than 2 lakh youth will get direct employment and in addition to where these industries will be engaged, factories will be created and indirect employment will also be provided to local people. Be a farmer, be a worker, be young with these projects; Everyone is going to benefit.Companions, I had promised to 22 million people of UP that they would return their love with interest. The projects that are going on here today are an important concrete step of the same commitment. These projects will also be helpful in removing the economic and industrial imbalance in Uttar Pradesh as it is not limited to certain areas of the state. They extend beyond Noida, Greater Noida, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar to Jhansi, Hardoi, Amethi, Rae Bareli and Jaunpur, Mirzapur, Gorakhpur. These projects, Digital India and Make In India are also going to be very big steps towards new dimensions in the campaign.To set up an optical fiber or to set up an IT center to deliver fast internet service across Uttar Pradesh, this Digital Infrastructure is going to give new growth to the development of UP, new direction and new opportunities for the youth. This is part of the comprehensive plan of our government, under which we want to make digitalization as well as simplify the lives of ordinary people. Want to create a system where there is no scope for any kind of discrimination. Processes also showed speed and sensitivity. Neither your own, nor apart, nor small, nor big, is dealing with everyone; That is, overall, 'everyone's development together.'Friends, 'Digital India Campaign' is playing a broad role today to ensure the fast and transparent delivery of services. More than three lakh common service centers spread over village-village are changing our rural life. For hundreds of services like tickets booking, electricity, telephone bills, telemedicine, mass-medicines, basic services, people of the village are no longer compelled to make rounds of government offices. The Common Service Center in the village is doing a great help in facilitating free Wi-Fi hot spots, cheap mobile internet-poor-middle class life in cities.Friends, IT Industries has been our strength for years. Today IT Export is at record level. Over 40 lakh people are associated with this industry. But the strength of the country remained limited to big cities, metro cities, and so on. Our government is working with this resolve to reach this small town and villages in the country.Companions, the official tradition of thinking in pieces is now over. Now the silos eliminate the solutions and the synchronization is being encouraged. One scheme of government, one action has direct connections from one to another. Digital India campaign and make in India campaign are excellent examples. Today, digital India, which is spreading digital transactions, is a cheap reason behind mobile phones. Mobile phones were so cheap because now a large number of phones are being manufactured in India, they have started becoming. Today the country is becoming a hub of mobile manufacturing for the world. Today, we have reached the second number in the world of making mobile phones and I am happy that UP is leading the leadership of these manufacturing revolution.Factories making more than 50 mobile phones in UP are working today. Recently, the world's largest manufacturing unit has also started in Uttar Pradesh. Even today the new factories that have been found here include factories attached with mobile manufacturing.In the last four years, the government has taken many decisions for the government, which has created the atmosphere today. Decisions involving foreign direct investment, decision to give incentive for manufacturing in the country, or decision to simplify procedures; All of these are proving to be helpful in creating a favorable environment for industries. The GST that has been stuck for years has freed the country from the tax net and it has also benefited the industry.In the past year, a very important step has been taken to promote manufacturing in the country. Public procurement preference to Make in India is being stressed on buying from domestic sources of goods and services being purchased in all departments and institutions of the government. Made In India is being emphasized. The benefit of this order is also being received by the small industries of the country.In the last one year, the changes under the leadership of Yogi Ji came here, policies became, crime was controlled; It has double benefit from UP. Companions, BJP government, holistic vision, inclusive action - holistic visionand inclusive action, is working on this approach.From this forum, I want to convince you and all the colleagues in the industry that are here, and this is our race of progress - this is a beginning for me; There is a lot to run. Running at a fast pace. You are an important unit of nation building and your resolve is also linked to the dreams of millions of youth of the country. Whatever we have to take to make these dreams come true, we also have the intention of taking it in the future with full force, strength too.As our big projects associated with Infrastructure will be ready, disinvestment in the country is going to be much easier. Especially, the cost of logistic is going to be very low. The next generation infrastructure will benefit the industry as well as the general public.There are many possibilities in UP for peers, information technology, consumer electronics, electronics manufacturing. The MSME sector here is also going to benefit from this new infrastructure. I urge the small traders, small and medium enterprises of those who are still doing business with cash, come forward in the direction of digital transactions.Companions, sustainable development and continuous efforts are going to come to realize the dreams of hundreds of hundred Indians. When we talk about sustainable development, then the power system is a very important part of it. Affordable and continuous electricity is also a basic necessity of normal life, so electricity is equally important for agriculture and industry. And so this government has a huge focus on power. Today, the country is growing rapidly towards green energy from conventional energy. In particular, the government is paying special attention to solar energy. Our initiative of international solar alliance is getting support in the world today. UP is going to be a very big hub in the field of solar energy. A very large plant was inaugurated just a few months ago in Mirzapur. Today the foundation stone of another plant has been done here.Brothers and Sisters, not only today, but many developing countries of the world, including Africa, need machines like solar technology, solar pump. I also urge all of you to come forward to take advantage of unprecedented environment and global conditions in India in the field of Green and Clean Energy, all our business leaders come forward.Friends, the work of generating electricity from home to electricity is moving forward at unprecedented speed today. In 2013-14, where our energy deficit was 4.2 percent, within four years our deficit today is less than one percent. The coal, the name of the coal, when it was heard in the country, which was once the cause of the soot, it is now being born at the record level. Today, power grid does not spread due to lack of coal.Not only this, the reforms made in the field of electricity have saved thousands of rupees of the common people of the country and the country.'Uday Yojana' has given a new life-line to the distribution companies. Under 'Ujala', the LED bulb installed in the house-to-house is close to the electricity bill in three years, and this is especially for the middle class family, which is the consumer of electricity; Municipality, the municipality, which fills the electricity bill of street light; Electricity bill has saved 50 thousand crore in the last three years. 50 thousand crore rupees, and if this had been announced by Modi in a concession of 50 thousand crore, then perhaps the headline would remain for weeks- Wah-wah Modi, Wah-wah. We made such a plan that 50 thousand crore rupees in the pocket of the people survived. How is the country changing? When it is done with a clear intention, the same is true development.Friends, the availability of electricity has become very easy in the country today. In the ease of getting power racking of the World Bank, India has jumped nearly 82 points in the last four years. So much improvement has happened. Today electricity has been provided to every village of the country. By the end of March next year, we are moving forward at a faster pace, with the goal of reaching every home.I am sometimes amazed - some people fall behind us, we say that if they do this then they simply do not take it, no, have not. But those who criticize Modi should write down - When you are searching for things to criticize Modi, he was left for 70 years and if he leaves, he will leave. There are four years in my account, others have 70 years in the account. After this, the goal is to give uninterrupted power to the country. For this the network of transmission is being strengthened.Today, the Ghatampur-Hapur Transmission Line is laid out as a part of the same scheme. In the manner in which the system of transmission was disrupted during the previous governments in UP, the Yogiji's government is being fully encouraged to breathe new life into it.Sathiyo, UP has been a long time MP from Uttar Pradesh and our revered, former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji says that he wants to see an India that is prosperous, capable and sensitive. Where there is no gap between villages and cities. Where there is no gap in labor and capital, administration and citizen in the center and state.Atalji not only dreamed but also to make the road map clear. Atalji had ever said that the roads are like the lines of hands. The result of this thought is that they have focused on infrastructure. We are trying to take Atalji's thinking to the next level according to the requirements of 21st century, with full force.In UP, the largest express in the country like Purvanchal Express, the establishment of the Defense Industrial Corridor in Bundelkhand, is being tried to complete all such projects. Any better practice, any better practice, anywhere in the world, if any, is available, then the government is making every effort to reach its young peers, to reach 500 million people. It is our way to meet the people's participation in the field of public participation, the road map of New India. I congratulate you on behalf of my heart, for all of you who are doing for the country of Uttar Pradesh.I went to Mumbai in the past two-a-month ago and I called the people of the industry in Mumbai. And people call but do not dare to tell, I called. And I presented a presentation before him that you are such a rich wealthy person, run such a large industry, do so many business, but the industry that is in our country is the whole world, its agriculture sector, corporate world, just investment -Only one percent; Which is not so short in any country in the world. And I had spent half an hour with them that how to invest in our corporate world, in agriculture and what happens in one percent also - those who make tractors or urea are those more. The direct farmer should be benefitted and I have also urged the people of the industry, the subjects have also explained - how to get value addition, how to bring technology into agriculture, warehouses, Cold storage, packaging, there are many such topics that can make great profits to our agricultural producers. And to work in that direction, I have urged the industrialists of the country to create a small brain storming team here, set up a team, think about what can be done in the area. The more corporate investment we can bring in the agricultural world of our country, the strength of our farmers, which yields, sometimes our produce is destroyed so much. Just as Suri Ji was telling us that now we have decided to sell juice by the pulp of the fruits which are born in our country, meaning the farmer is going to benefit. And whoever drinks juice, that too will be strong, and if he becomes strong then the country will also be strong. There are many such topics that can benefit a lot to our agricultural producers. And to work in that direction, I have urged the industrialists of the country to create a small brain storming team here, set up a team, think about what can be done in the area. The more corporate investment we can bring in the agricultural world of our country, the strength of our farmers, which yields, sometimes our produce is destroyed so much. Just as Suri Ji was telling us that now we have decided to sell juice by the pulp of the fruits which are born in our country, meaning the farmer is going to benefit. And whoever drinks juice, that too will be strong, and if he becomes strong then the country will also be strong. There are many such topics that can benefit a lot to our agricultural producers. And to work in that direction, I have urged the industrialists of the country to create a small brain storming team here, set up a team, think about what can be done in the area. The more corporate investment we can bring in the agricultural world of our country, the strength of our farmers, which yields, sometimes our produce is destroyed so much. Just as Suri Ji was telling us that now we have decided to sell juice by the pulp of the fruits which are born in our country, meaning the farmer is going to benefit. And whoever drinks juice, that too will be strong, and if he becomes strong then the country will also be strong. Sometimes our yields are destroyed so much. Just as Suri Ji was telling us that now we have decided to sell juice by the pulp of the fruits which are born in our country, meaning the farmer is going to benefit. And whoever drinks juice, that too will be strong, and if he becomes strong then the country will also be strong. Sometimes our yields are destroyed so much. Just as Suri Ji was telling us that now we have decided to sell juice by the pulp of the fruits which are born in our country, meaning the farmer is going to benefit. And whoever drinks juice, that too will be strong, and if he becomes strong then the country will also be strong.I mean to say how to take these industries together with rural life. How to take small things in rural life This is very important in the coming life and I am giving emphasis on it, the most I am talking about. I believe it will get results too. And I believe this is the way the project of 60 thousand crore rupees has landed on the ground, like the rest of the yogi, Yogiji was saying that the work of 50 thousand crore is almost complete. I believe that you have done a great job in yourself. The whole team is once again eligible for congratulations.Thanks very much to you all. And the UP's development news of Uttar Pradesh gives me great pleasure and I am also responsible for the people of Uttar Pradesh. And that's why I come twice, come five times, come 15 times, I am you. I am not here, I am here.Thanks a lot.