Business leaders present in large numbers from Japan and India. Senior CEOs of CEOs, Kedinarden, Jetro, NIKKI, CII and NASCOMComing to Japan, talking to the business community here gives me great pleasure. I still remember, for nearly 10 years, my entrepreneurs have been discussing in detail in detail. I had understood your vision, many new things were learned from you. In the last decade your intimacy towards India has been growing steadily over time.At every level of the Government of India, the effort is to change the business environment in the country in such a way that there is every step of feeling at ease of doing business and ease of living.Colleagues , A few years ago, I talked about making a mini Japan in India. It is a great pleasure for me that today you are working in India at a much larger level.For many decades where there were around 1150 companies in India, between the years 2014 to 2017, more than 200 new companies of Japan have started operating in India. These numbers are increasing day by day. You are eligible for this.Today companies from Japan have car manufacturing from India to Communication; The work is going on together from infrastructure to services. This pleasant journey between India and Japan has also been pleasurable and result-oriented, for my side, very good luck to all of you.Colleagues , The co-existence of India and Japan is based on faith and our shared heritage, based on our intimacy. This is the spirit and ritual in the founding of close relationships between the two countries.This is the reason that during my first visit to the Prime Minister in 2014, we have decided that both countries will take their relationship to a new height, upgrading it to the level of special strategic and global partnership. Since then, the Hon'ble Prime Minister of Japan, Abe and I have been continuously meeting together. Prime Minister Mr. Abe and we together have overcome many obstacles in the business work between the two countries.Companions , theJapanese government has assisted in our many ambitious infrastructure projects over the last few years. Our Western Dedicated Freight Corridor is now about to be completed. This will reach the state of being fully operational after one year. The project of our Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor connected with this is going well with the cooperation of Japanese government and Japan companies.During Hon'ble Abe ji's last visit to India, we decided to work with the High Speed ​​Rail Project. India's first project has started between Mumbai-Ahmedabad and it is also working at a faster pace.Colleagues , It has been almost four and half years since my government remained in India. In the meantime, the business that I attached to the top of my priority list is - Ease of Doing Business .. The result is now in front of the world. In 2014, when I took over the reins of the government, India's position in the World's Easy to Doing Business ranking was 142th. Now we are on a hundredth rank and are still working very broadly to improve the ranking. At the level of the federal government, at the level of State Government, we are taking one step after the local government level. We will get more good results in the coming years.Such a big improvement has been made possible by the decisions taken quickly and decisively, and the changes in the rules of the inadmissibility.I want to tell you one more important thing here. Government of India has started Ranking of 36 States and Union Territories to further promote the Ease of Doing business.It has been a major impact that now in the states, Healthy Competition has begun with investment, which has very good results.Colleagues , Capital investment is the need of our country. In the area of ​​Ease of Doing Business, we are taking sincere steps. When capital investment will be created, new jobs will be created for the unemployed, there will be improvement in the country's infrastructure, there will be value addition in agriculture, mineral, sea properties and all other natural properties.Our effort to give our citizens the ease of living is an extension of the Ease of Doing Business.Therefore, by running a Maha Abhiyan, we have worked in the area of ​​Ease of Doing Business. We have also got other achievements due to this great effort:· World Intellectual Property Orgnisation (WIPO) has ranked 21 in the Global Innovation Index ranking.· In World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Index, we have climbed 31 places in 2 years.· India is firmly named in the 10 FDI destinations listed by UNCTAD.In the last few years we have done quite a lot of reforms in the field of FDI. Today, we have become the most open economy in terms of FDI. More than 90 percent of permissions are now given on Automatic Route.· The result of this is that our FDI has increased from 36 billion US dollars in the last 3 years to 60 billion US dollars.· Today, we are the big economy to develop at the fastest pace in the world.· Now we are an economy of 2.59 trillion US dollars with the economy of sixth and soon to be the fifth largest economy.The Indian economy due to the committment we have improved with the domestic level:· Formal Economy is being created from Informal.· Transactions are now coming online rather than on Paper, which has led to increased stability and transparency.Transportation has become easy due to GST being implemented across the country and the Logistics sector has become stronger.· Over time, we are going to reduce corporate tax. This is being taken care of That is, MSME i.e., small industries, has immense gains.The demand for business class of stability and transparency in policies has now become the identity of the Government of India.Colleagues , During my first visit as Prime Minister, I talked about setting up an organization named Japan Plus. I am very happy to say that JETRO and you all have used that system.On this occasion, I would like to share another information. Japan plus works with our Invest India. The United Nations has rewarded the global honor for its finest works just a few days before this investment India.Colleagues , The fast growing economy in India, the rapidly growing middle class, the rapidly growing urban population and our Young Demography provide a very wide range of opportunities for the companies of Japan.I give some examples-In India, we have moved forward towards making the Global Hub in the field of Manufacturing and Research under the specific programs like Make in India for the last four years.There is a lot of potential for working in Japan especially MSME companies in India. I want to say here that every major company coming to India is welcome but only through MSME, Japanese business leaders can take their business to new heights. In the short term, MSME results appear.One of the benefits of doing business in India is Low cost manufacturing too. Competitive Labour Cost is a huge force in India.In the same way, our IT industry is a huge power. I have come here before, and if you find our software and your hardware, then I think that we can miracle inside the world.Not only this, India is rapidly moving forward towards industry 4.0 through new inventions like Artificial Intellingence, Internet of Things, 3D Printing, Robotics etc. in the field of technology.Similarly, Electric Mobility is an area in which cooperation between India and Japan is going to prove extremely beneficial for both countries.Colleagues , Besides, in India we are doing unprecedented work on Infrastructure too. Now our emphasis is on Next Generation Infrastructure. We intend that we create a Competitive Economy based on the skill, speed and scale. To realize this idea, we are constantly trying to improve investment climate.From today on this forum, I invite all of you to the huge business opportunity that is being made in India. I would like to give you some more examples of this immense opportunity:· Our Sagarmala program through which we want to connect the coastal regions of the country to regional areas, is a great opportunity for you.· Many new opportunities are also being created due to the smart city program. We also want to introduce metro rail in our 50 cities.· In the same way, the expansion and modernization of our rail and road is also very huge. Right now we have to build many high speed corridors.· With the modernization of existing port and airport, establishment of new ports and airports is also on our agenda.· Inland Water Transport and Green Energy is our new commitment and that too is a great opportunity for you.· Our steel consumption is currently very low. Iron is also abundant. I want high grade steel production in India.Colleagues , Both India and Japan are strong supporters of democratic values ​​and freedoms.Also, there are many similarities in our approach to policies for development and policies.Apart from infrastructure and capacity building, Japan and India have strong potential for cooperation in third countries in areas such as health and agriculture.Therefore, whether Indo-Pacific or South Asia or Africa, India and Japan will strengthen our participation in the development of third countries on the basis of priorities of our partner countries.From the entry of Japan into the International Solar Alliance, new doors to partnership between our two countries are open in third countries on topics such as solar energy and climate change.I am happy that today many members of the forum in the meeting of the India Japan Business Leaders Forum presented a number of good ideas for enhancing the cooperation between India and Japan businessmen in these areas in Africa.Colleagues , I've always been talking about Strong India - Strong Japan.I express our gratitude to Japan's entrepreneurial class for this special trust on India today.I would also like to invite all of you to increase the pace of investment in India.I assure you that you will be given all possible help to further strengthen trade relations between Japan and India.Once again I am very thankful to all of you for joining this event.