Hello!A country like Japan, this atmosphere of the Aike Season and together with all of you, is really a wonderful combination.Even in India, there is a working day, and at 9 o'clock in the morning, I have to call, but in such a large number of days, it seems that some people will have fire at night. I am very grateful to you for your blessings for this love.Today's meeting is also special because since you got all the settlers settled in Japan in 2016, I am meeting today. On this occasion, from the side of India, I am your dear friend, Prime Minister I congratulate Shinzo Abe for being the President of LDP again.To the people of India, towards me, the love of Prime Minister Abe, has always been his affection. This time, I am thankful to the Prime Minister and the people of Japan for the kind of special felicity he has given to this new dimension. Besides, you also give many good wishes to all of you Deepawali. In Deepawali, where the lamp resides, the same way you can illuminate your name and country in every corner of Japan and the world, this is my wish.Colleagues,This is my third visit to Japan as the Prime Minister of India. And whenever I got an opportunity to come to Japan, I feel a sense of belonging here. That is because the relations between India and Japan are rooted in cult to trend. Hindu or Buddhist, our heritage is shared. We take a glimpse of this legacy every second, from our adorable to alphabets.Mother Saraswati, Maa Lakshmi, Lord Shiva and Ganesh are all equally present in the Japanese society. The word "service" means the same in Japanese and Hindi. Home became goma here and the pylon became tori in Japanese. The Japanese pilgrims who go to Holy Mount Ontake (Onta), who wear traditional white attire, also write some ancient characters of Sanskrit-Siddim script. When they wear White Japanese Tengui, they are written OM.There are many strong threads in such a past in the struggle of colleagues, India and Japan. Where Buddhas and Bose add to the history of India and Japan, the present is strengthening the new India's ambassador like you. The ambassador of the government is one but the ambassador here is thousands. You are a bridge that connects India and Japan to the people, culture and aspirations of both countries. I am glad that you are playing this responsibility with your success.Companions, whenever I talk to Prime Minister Abe, he praises the Indian community so much that the mind becomes giddy. You people have earned great respect from their skills, their cultural values ​​here. Yoga has been successful in making you part of Japan's life. In the menu here, you brought Kadhi rice and now you also celebrate Diwali with your Japanese friends. You have started giving the art of kabaddi to this country, skillfully trained in martial arts, and now you are also engaged in developing the culture of cricket. The way you have contributed, Co-exist to Conquer, in the heart of the hearts, the place is made in Japanese hearts; it is really kabiladad. I am happy that more than 30 thousand Indian community is working as a representative of our culture here.Companions, many of you naturally keep coming and going in India. Those who have not been for a long time, must have been taking information through the newspapers, through the Internet, about the change in India. Today India is passing through a major phase of change. The world is today glorifying India's efforts to serve humanity. The country is being honored for the work that is being done in the field of public service, which is going on in India. Recently, two great organizations of the world have appreciated India's efforts, have been honored. To contribute to Green Future, the United Nations has championed India as the Champion of the Earth, then the Sol Peace Foundation has given it as a Sol Peace Prize.Companions, these honors may have been given to Narendra Modi as a representative of one and a half million people, but my contribution is as much as the thread of the necklace that is moving the beads and encourages them to move forward by organizing. Our country is full of pearls from one diamond like you. Only a organized effort was required which we have been doing for the past four years. Today, the collective power of the people is giving the same power to the world. To safeguard the environment, to overcome economic imbalance, India's role is to lead world peace.I thank the Jury of the Sol Peace Prize for praising Modinomics. In full respect of their feelings, I would like to say that instead of Modinomics it is respect for Indonomics. Being the head of the government, I am doing what is the culture of India, the tradition of India. Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam and Survey Bhawan Sukhina:We are dedicated to our ancient values ​​of Surya Satyam Niramaya. Our government has only made so much change that the world, the glasses of India should be seen. And do not look at India with eyeglasses. Our government is constantly working with the spirit of Indian Solution, Global Application. We are resolving problems of India first and then presenting that model to other countries of the world.Friends, you will be proud to know that the Transparency of JAM's Trinity, which has come to India, is being inspired by the other developing countries of the world. This system is being studied in India. Apart from this, our modern system of Digital Transaction, such as BHIM App and Rupay Card, is also curious in many countries of the world. I have been told that Japan is also increasingly making efforts towards Less Cash Economy. You will be happy to know that India has gone a long way in this direction today. Over the past four years, digital transactions have increased by almost 7x through UPI, BHIM and other digital platforms. At the same time, Financial Inclusion is taking India to the next level and home delivery of Financial Services is being done through Post Offices to the village. You have seen the postman in your childhood, today he has become a postman banker.Companions, today India is making unprecedented progress in the case of Digital Infrastructure. Broadband connectivity is reaching village-village and more than 30 million mobile phones are active in India today. Sometimes it goes that India has more mobile phones than its population. In India, 1GB data is cheaper than the smallest bottle of cold drink. The cheapest data today is becoming an effective medium of service delivery. While Make In India has emerged today as a global brand. Today, we are making great products not just for India but for the world. India is becoming a global hub especially in Electronics and Automobile Manufacturing. In Mobile Phone Manufacturing, we are moving forward towards becoming number one.Behind the success of the peers, Make in India, is the atmosphere that has been made for business in the past four years. In the Ease of Doing Business Ranking, we have made a jump of more than 40 digits. In Global Competitive We have also improved the level of 5 this year. At the same time, in the case of innovation, we have joined the list of the world's leading countries today. This is the reason that in the case of India Start Up, the second largest ecosystem is created.Companions, whatever innovations are taking place in India, whatever solutions are being prepared, they are cheap and are also good in terms of quality. India's Space Program is a great example. India is sending many satellites of private sector companies to space today at very low cost. Last year, our scientists created an unprecedented record of launching more than one hundred satellites simultaneously. We sent Chandrayaan and Mangalyaan space in a very small amount of time, now we are preparing to send Bharat Gagnan by 2022. These gaganis will be completely Indian and in this space there will also be Indians going to space.Many such changes are taking place in India today from colleagues, from zombies to space. Due to these changes, India today has become the world's fastest growing major economy. Looking at these changes, all the agencies in the world are saying that India will drive growth of the world in the coming decade. In this growth story of India, Japan is going to contribute a great deal to all of you. From the bullet train to the Smart Cities, Japan's new infrastructure is being prepared today in Japan. India's Man-power, Youth Power of India is also benefiting from the skills of Japan.My colleagues, I invite you all to be active participants in the creation of New India. Today there are appropriate opportunities for investment and innovation in India, but it is also important time to join activation with its roots. Indians settled in Japan have always contributed a lot to the country, together with Japanese friends. Swami Vivekanand ji, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, who has got the support of India's independence movement from Japan, will always be in the heart of millions of Indians. Our relations should be further intensified in the future, our partnership and strength, for this we Everyone has to make constant efforts.I invite you to this forum from today to Pravasi Bharatiya Divas and Ardhakumba in January next year. Pravasi Bharatiya Divas will be in Varanasi this time, Where the Prime Minister Abe was fascinated by seeing Ganga Aarti. And I have been invited to come to Varanasi because I am a lawmaker there. So in a way you are all my guests. Two days later, on the map of the world, India is going to make its new identity permanent. 31 October is the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Sardar Saheb's birth anniversary, we have come to believe every time, but this time the attention of the whole world is going to be attracted because Sardar Sahab's land is becoming the world's tallest statue of Sardar Sahib on the soil of Gujarat. It is so high that in order to understand it, I will say that the statue of Unity from the statue of Liberty is double high. The higher the talent of Sardar Sahib, the higher the statue, the higher will become. Every Hindustani can proudly say that the world's highest statue is on the earth of India, Sardar Patel belongs to. It will be released on 31 October. I believe that whenever your people of Japan come to India whenever you come to India, you must surely inspire them to go to see Sardar Patel's world's tallest statue. This is my solicitation.Finally, all of you best wishes to Deepawali. Thank you very much for coming to such a large number in the morning.Thanks!