Prime Minister and my close friend Abe ji ,Distinguished delegates, Friends,  
hello! Concharya! Here in Tokyo, and earlier in Yamanashi and the affair with which Abe San welcomed me, he made the success of my visit to this Japan even more unimaginable. Japan is the confluence of the best aspects of the civilizations of the East and West. This is the only great country that has taught that the path to the development of mankind is not a conflict between the ancient and the new, but its coexistence and the creation. Welcome to the new and the honor of the old - this is the key to Japan's world civilization. And also a deep similarity between India and Japan.Excellencies, The relations between Japan and India are received by the depth and breadth of the Indian and Pacific oceans. These relations are based on democratic values ​​and freedoms and shared commitment towards the Rule of Law. On a huge vision for the forthcoming development of our relations yesterday and today I have had a very useful conversation with Abe San. Today, we have signed this shared vision. Tomorrow it will give new light to our future. We have the fullest agreement that we will give unlimited pace to our cooperation from digital partnership to cyber space, from health to protection, and from sea to space. I have been told that Japan's investors today in India 2 New investment of $ 5 billion has been announced. This will provide employment to about 30 thousand people in India. During this visit, our mutual trust and our growing partnership of mutual partnership in the mutual consent of the bilateral currency swap arrangement is clearly visible.Friends, The 21st century is the century of Asia. But there are questions on its form. Who has the advantage, what to do, there are many such questions. But one thing is clear. Without the cooperation of India and Japan 21st Century can not be a century of Asia. Abe San and I have agreed to the 2 + 2 Dialogue between our Foreign and Defense Ministers. Its purpose is to promote peace and stability in the world. Japan's entry into the International Solar Alliance will be another bright example of such cooperation in the interest of the world.Friends, The next year Japan will host the G-20 Summit in Osaka. Next year the Rugby World Cup will also be held in Japan. The tournament will be held in Asia for the first time. And then in 2020 Olympics (Olmpix) will be held in Tokyo. For all these important global events, on behalf of me, and from all India, our warm greetings are with you.Friends, Progress in the relations of Indo-Japan is infinite like Japan's Kaizan philosophy. Together with Prime Minister Abe, I am committed to strengthen these relations further. I once again thank Abe San, the Government of Japan and your heartfelt thanks and best wishes to all of you.DOMO ARRIGATO GOZAIAMES