His Excellency President, all the senior great personalities present and who have received the respect today, all the greats dedicated to society, I apologize to you first of all, because the program started with a little delay, because I was busy with some other work which caused me delayed, so I apologize to all of you. Today, the people and organizations honored for the Gandhi Peace Prize, in a way, this year is also important because the 150th birth anniversary of Pujya Bapu is celebrating the country and the world, and Pujya Bapu lives the way in which he lives in his life. Wade and those who tried hard to perform in social life, who made unremitting efforts. By taking similar actions, the organization that is dedicated, those who are dedicated, are liked for this respect. Vivekananda Center of Kanyakumari, be a single school, This society continues to strive for education and rituals to the people sitting at the last end of life. They have built a huge chain of work that is dedicated to society. I congratulate him very much on this occasion of honor.When Gandhi was asked, once he had said that in both Swaraj and cleanliness, I have to like something first, then I would like cleanliness and it is our responsibility to fulfill that dream of Pujya Bapu. Anyone in the country who carries herself for sanitation, for the sanitation, she is very respected for all of us. And the way the accessible toilets are working to make the same thing, they also got the opportunity to congratulate today. Through the Akshay Vyas, the children of the country should get mid day meal, this is the activity of the government in all these states. He has tried to give him a touch of professionalism by Akshay Patra and I had the privilege of serving three billion trays in Vrindavan a few times ago. The Government of India is also working as a mission against malnutrition with a very comprehensive plan because India's childhood is healthy, So India will be healthy and by taking this feeling people's participation in these efforts is very necessary. When public participation joins the government's efforts. Then his power increases.The biggest thing in the success of Mahatma Gandhi's life was that the tradition of death for freedom never ceased in this country. The years of slavery, the revolutionaries have been getting the same years. This is the specialty of this country, but Gandhiji made independence a mass movement. If I do any work for the society, it will come to freedom, it will create freedom. People's participation, during the period of freedom of movement, was as important as the greatness of the freedom struggle, the equally prosperous India. That is also the way shown by Gandhi that with the participation of people and people's movement we fulfill the dreams of Pujya Bapu, 150th birth anniversary of Gandhi and 75 years of independence in 2022, we will go ahead with the resolution. Pujya Bapu was a world human. In spite of such engagement in the freedom movement, he used to serve one day a day for the blood vessels. Leprosy used to give time to myself, Used to own it. Because the mindset that was created in the society was to change it. Saskawa ji has been involved in this work in nearly four decades. A public awareness has been born against leprosy. His acceptance in the society has begun. There are many such people who, who were deprived of blood due to blood, understood their pain and tried to bring them into mainstream, then honoring all these efforts, Pujya is endeavoring a true tribute to Bapu. When Gandhi is celebrating 150th birth anniversary, then this world is human, in that form it is a matter of great pleasure to go to the world and to say that this time the holy hymn of 'Pure Bapu Bapu' should be called Vaishnava Jan Tao So, people from around 150 countries of the world The artists who did not know any language of India there, He sang Bhajan in the same way as' Vaishnava jan te tanee hai 'and singer of 150 countries' Vaishnav jan'gayei. If you go on the tube, then you are so big ... that is how the identity of India is growing, how it is growing, how India's acceptance is growing, and how Gandhi's ideal today is beneficial for human welfare today. It seems to accept the world. For this, now for every child of India, what can be a great pride for every citizen. Then once again I congratulate everyone very much. I wish a lot of good luck. While bowing down at the feet of Pujya Bapu, giving a humble tribute pauses my voice. Thanks a lot. What can be a big pride for every citizen. Then once again I congratulate everyone very much. I wish a lot of good luck. While bowing down at the feet of Pujya Bapu, giving a humble tribute pauses my voice. Thanks a lot. What can be a big pride for every citizen. Then once again I congratulate everyone very much. I wish a lot of good luck. While bowing down at the feet of Pujya Bapu, giving a humble tribute pauses my voice. Thanks a lot.