Hare Krishna - Hare KrishnaAshok's Chairman Pujya Gopal Krishna Maharaj, my colleague Mr. Mahesh Sharma, my colleague in the Parliament, Smt Meenakshi Lekhi ji, other important members of ASCON and the ladies and gentlemen present here.I have been told that people from many countries including America, Britain, Russia, Hungary have reached this program; Thank you very much to all of you tooFriends, today is very important. Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna This day is so important that in the morning I participated in the program of Gandhi Peace Prize and now I am getting an opportunity to dedicate the great form of Divya Gita Geeta to the nation. This opportunity is more special to me because I stand in that place where Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji had laid the foundation stone of this temple premises almost two decades ago.Friends, this grandest lord of the world is three meters long and 800 kg. It is not only special because of its size, in fact, it will remain an icon by becoming a symbol of great Indian knowledge given to the world for centuries. All of you associated with ASCON have created their full potential and creativity in creating this Gita. This Gita is a symbol of devotion and dedication to Lord Sri Krishna and devotees of Swami Purvardas. You are all eligible for this commendable endeavor. This will increase the interest of the world towards the tradition of India's ancient and divine wisdom.Friends, many efforts have been made to bring Bhagavad Gita from general to normal human beings till now. From the smallest Gita to the biggest Gita - continuous attempts have been made to make this divine knowledge easy and accessible. Bhagavad-Gita has been translated into many languages ​​in India and abroad.Sathiyo, Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak ji, while staying in jail, has written Gita secrets. In this, Lokmanya Tilak has made very simple explanation of Lord Sri Krishna's untiring Karma yoga. He has written that the effect of the message of the Gita is not limited to only the discussion of philosophers or scholars, but in the field of ethics, he always wins-seems awakened. Lokmanya Tilak has brought the knowledge of Geeta to the common man in Marathi and translated it into Gujarati.This Gujarati translation was read by the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi and this helped Gandhiji get much help in writing the Bhagavad Gita according to Gandhi. Through this composition Gandhiji placed another side of the Gita in front of the world. I had given this book of Gandhiji as a gift to former US President Mr. Barack Obama.Sathiyo, Shrimadbhavadgita is the most inspiring gift to India's world. Geeta is the heritage of the whole world. Gita is relevant to thousands of years. From the leaders of the world to the common man, the Gita has shown all the way to action in public interest. In almost every house of India, Bhagvad Gita is present in some form, many great figures of the world have not remained untouched by its divinity. From knowledge to science, inspiration of many people from all walks of life, it is said to be on the field of Kurukshetra.Famous German philosopher Schopenhauer wrote, "There is no study in the whole world more beneficial than studying Geeta and Upanishad, who introduced my life peacefully and gave my life the confidence of eternal peace. These things happened in that period when our country was enslaved in slavery, many attempts were being made to crush our culture and our tradition, and there was a lot of effort going on to undermine Indian philosophy.Sathiyo, a great effort by the ancient knowledge of India to introduce purity to India has been done by the eminent devotees on stage and many scholars and Bhagats in front of me have also done it. Shrimad-Bhakti Vedanta Swami Prabhunathji had himself dedicated himself to the Bhagavad-Gita. Just as the Gita and Satyagraha have been an important part of life for Gandhiji, in the same way for Swamiji also, these two ways of serving humanity are always dear to them. This is the reason that he had also taken part in the Quit India Movement under Gandhiji's leadership and after the country's independence, he left for the world tour to awaken the salvation of human liberation. Facing all kinds of challenges from his strong will, he carried out an expedition like Ascon which is today engaged in acquiring the world through the path shown by Lord Shri Krishna.Sethio, Geeta is a holy book, but it is also a life book. We belong to any country, we are supposed to be of any cult, but every day we are facing problems. Whenever we stand on the battle of indecision like Veer Arjuna, then Srimad Bhagavad Gita shows us solutions to these problems through service and dedication. If you are a student and are in a state of indecision, you are the head of a country or you are a Yogi who wished for salvation; You will find the answer to each of your questions in Shri Bhagwad Gita.I believe that Geeta is the greatest manual book of human life. The solution of every problem of life is found somewhere in the Gita. You have said so clearly to the Lord-Surat Parinean sadhu is a disasterDharma-establishment of Sankhwamy Yuga Yuga ..By means of the wicked, the power of the Lord always lives with us to save the earth from the enemies of humanity. We are endeavoring to deliver the same message to the wicked spirits and the atrocities with full credentials.Brothers and Sisters, when the Lord says, why waste in vain, who are scared of useless, who can kill you, what did you bring and what you would bring - so for yourself in the service of the people and the national service The motivation for being dedicated is automatically achieved.Friends, we have tried that every decision of the government, justice at the core of every policy, equality, equality of equality.  The mantra of all development is the result of this feeling and every decision of our every plan and every decision reflects this feeling. Whether it is the steps taken against corrupt practices or associated with poor welfare, our ongoing work. It has been our constant endeavor that politics should be lifted out of the way of our own pursuit.Friends, our government has always been convinced that Indian culture, Indian values, and Indian tradition are the solutions to many problems of the world. Violence, there should be problems of families, environmental problems; Every challenge that the world is facing today, its solution is in Indian philosophy. Our government has given a sound voice to the auspices of yoga and Ayurveda, the identity of the world and the auspices like you and the saints of the country. As a result, today the world is getting attracted towards yoga and Ayurveda for health and wellness.Friends, I also believe that taking our yoga from Ayurveda to our ancient knowledge and science, there is still much to be done in the real sense of the world. Our best is yet to come before the world.All of us, from our ancient knowledge-based sciences, will insist that they give their efforts more speed and add new generation to research. The government is always ready to help you.Once again, every devotee associated with Ascon, every person, every person in the world who believes in humanity, congratulations on behalf of me for this divine Bhagavad-gita.You invited me here, participated in this sacred occasion. I am very grateful to you for this.Thank you very much, Green Krishna.