I am delighted to be in Madurai, famous for Minakshi-Sundareshwara Temple and a place that owes its name to the auspicious blessings of Lord Shiva.
The Country celebrated Republic Day yesterday. In some ways, the laying of foundation stone of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Madurai today reflects our vision of “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat”.
Friends,
We all know that AIIMS in Delhi has cultivated a brand name for itself in health care.
With AIIMS in Madurai, we can say that this brand of health care has been taken to all corners of the country – from Kanyakumari to Kashmir to Madurai; and from Guwahati to Gujarat. AIIMS at Madurai will be constructed at a cost of more than rupees sixteen hundred crores. It will benefit the entire population of Tamil Nadu.
Friends,
The NDA Government is giving great priority to the heath sector, so that everyone is healthy and health-care is affordable.
Under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana, we have supported up gradation of Government Medical Colleges across India.
Today I am happy to inaugurate the Super Specialty Blocks of Madurai,
Thanjavur and Tirunelveli Medical Colleges.
The speed and scale at which Mission Indradhanush is working is setting a new paradigm in preventive healthcare.  Pradhan Mantri Matritva Vandana Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan is making safe pregnancy a mass movement.
The number of under-graduate medical seats have been increased by almost 30 percent in the last 4 and half years. The launch of Ayushman Bharat is also a big step.
It is a carefully thought out approach to ensure achievement of universal health coverage for our country. Ayushman Bharat seeks to undertake path breaking interventions to holistically address health issues.
One Point Five lakh Health & Wellness Centres are being set up to provide comprehensive primary care and preventive health services.
Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana provides financial protection upto Rupees 5 lakh per family per year to over 10 crore needy families in case of hospitalization.
It is the largest Health Insurance Scheme in the world.
I am happy to learn that one core fifty seven lakh persons of Tamil Nadu State are covered under this Scheme.
In just over three months about 89 thousand beneficiaries were admitted and an amount of more than rupees two hundred crore has been authorized for admitted patients of Tamil Nadu. I am also happy to learn that Tamil Nadu has already started one thousand three hundred and twenty Health & Wellness Centres.
On the disease control front, we are providing technical and financial support to states. Our Government is committed to TB elimination by 2025. I am happy to learn that the state Government is up-scaling the TB Free Chennai initiative and seeking to eliminate TB in the state by 2023 itself.
I compliment the state for their commitment towards implementation of all aspects of the Revised National TB Control Program.
I assure that the Government of India stands committed for extending all necessary support for efforts of the state in tackling these diseases.
Today I am also happy to dedicate 12 Post Office Passport Sewa Kendras in Tamil Nadu.
This initiative is one more example of improving the “ease of living” to our citizens.
I once again assure that my government is committed to strengthen the initiatives in health care to ensure universal health coverage.
JAI HIND!!!!