Long live Mother India
Long live Mother India
Long live Mother India
Long live Mother India
My colleague of the Cabinet, the country's first woman who handles the Ministry of Defense. Mrs. Nirmala Sitharaman ji, Dr. Subhash Bhamre, the Director General of the NCC, the highest office bearer of the three armies, our guests coming from abroad and part of the great tradition of the NCC are all part of my young partner.
In the Republic Day Camp at the National Cadets Corps, once again you are enjoying as you are enjoying each other. Whenever I come to interact with you, many memories of the past arise in the mind. Josh and discipline The days you are living in, I have had the opportunity to live these moments too. Those days spent as a Cadet are giving energy to my resolve till today, my inspiration.
Companions, this camp itself has a glorious past and it has a great significance for the future. I am very happy and best wishes to all the Cadets, who became part of this camp. When I came between you last year, I made some request to you. He appealed to you for his active contribution in important issues related to the country and the society.
I am happy that in the last year, the CCC's NCC Cadets have added themselves with several important steps. Have a clean India campaign, digital transaction, daughter save - Beti campaigns, issues related to environment. Your efforts on many such issues of public awareness are commendable.
Particularly the contributions of NCC's credits in the relief and rescue operations after the horrific floods in Kerala are very commendable. Here you have learned this lesson of cooperation and dedication that you have brought about the relief of self-stricken families in Kerala. I believe that you will continue to fulfill your responsibilities like this.
Companions, our Republic has already stepped in the 70th year, two days ago. First look at Rajpath and here today the glow of your face and the glow of your discipline and in those glances, I see the rhythm of the new India. Enlarged the chest with full confidence, keeping the mind high, these unlimited energy enthusiasts are ready to give glory to the nation. Your enthusiasm is your enthusiasm, which is why India is full of new confidence today. Today the world is saying that India is not only a country full of prospects but it is also realizing them.

Our capabilities have been expanded at all levels, with our friends, our country's economy or our ability to deal with the enemy. Our army has given a clear message that we do not tease, but if someone wanders, then we do not even leave it. We are strong advocates of peace. But we will not be able to take any steps to protect the nation. This is the reason that in the last four and a half years many important decisions have been taken while keeping the country's security and security paramount.

Companions, India has joined the select countries of the world who have the ability to save water, land and nuclear from nuclear attacks and self defense. Apart from this, the agreements involving fighter planes and modern guns have been put on the ground for decades. From missiles to tanks, ammunition and helicopters are also being made in the country. I assure you young colleagues that in the future, every big and tough decision will be taken that is necessary for the protection of the nation. If the nation is safe, it will be able to achieve its dreams only when young will be able to realize its dreams.

Companions, you have come here from different areas of the country. Many of you are from small villages and from different towns with different backgrounds. I have a feeling of the hard work of all of you. You have a sense of dedication. I would only say that this diligence makes us all prosperous. Our foundation solidifies. NCT does not need to go very far for you to know what is the result of diligence. Many associates from within you have recently given the glory to the country by showing unwavering courage.

Adventure activities like mountaineering and trekking or the work of blowing the tricolor on the playground, many credits have come forward. The North East Directorate's Cadet Hima Das, the world is proud to know today. Running in paddy fields, balancing the trails of the fields, Hima Das has reached this level today. Hima has made the country proud in the first junior athletic championship and then in the Asian Games, making the opportunities inadequate. When I see such many young talents, when I meet them My trust is only going to be strong. The power to empower this trust is also found.

It is his natural tendency that the companions, dreams and the flight of ambitions are identical to the young. Let your dreams and dreams fly high. Give your full detail of your efforts. The present government is standing with the shoulders of every young person in the country with every dreamer and is ready to walk by step by step. New India will give opportunity to every worker, give opportunity. When all the partners are ready to go to the country's work force. Then I want to trust you. Based on which family you have been born, who you are aware of, your financial situation depends on your future. Your skills, your confidence, the ulcers of your feet will give you results.

In order to break this tradition, a meaningful effort is required to divide every kind of imbalance and inequality in the society, to break this tradition. Vip is not an EPI ie every person is important An effort to strengthen this sacrament is continuously. The red light has been removed from the top of the car. Now the brain is trying to remove it too. You will be assured that your dreams will not be allowed to end your ambitions just because of lack and circumstances.

When it comes to associates, the similarity of opportunities, an important topic is also associated with our daughters. There is no difference between sitting in front of me whether you have sons or daughters, in your passion and your strength. Connecting daughters to every kind of opportunity is the priority of our government. In the last four and a half years, several steps have been taken to encourage girls in the work force. Along with Labor, Services and Udayam, our women are empowering the country's defence also. Many historical steps have been taken for this. For the first time our daughters have become fighter pilot. The glory of Tarin has seen the whole world. Now a big decision has been taken to strengthen the participation of daughters in the army. Steps are being taken to recruit 20% of women in the Total Corps of Military Police.

The companions, women's strengths have also seen Rajpath in last four and a half years. The last time the women's swot shoe landed on the Rajpath, this year, for the first time in this country's history, the whole contingent of women jawans has joined the parade. The country also saw this for the first time that a female leader has led a daughter. Daughter lead in every area of ​​society, trying to create a better environment for this is being done. If you look at the entire picture of the last four and a half years, you will get assurance that now there is no action to discuss the appropriate participation of women empowerment daughters.

Corruption is also a major obstacle in the way of associates, opportunities for equality. Bribery, brother-niece, self-respect should not have any place for them in our system.

Corruption can not be a ritual of new India. Both me and my government's thinking and action are witness to this that nobody who is corrupt, who is too big, no matter how powerful, nobody will survive. I am fully competent and honest in clearing all the decisions, through the brokers and middlemen, by the people who control the procedures from their reach, the people who bid for every file, clean the robbers of the poor and the poor.
All the young colleagues are actively involved in the backing of the comrades, whatever the government is doing today. Clean India from the movement of cleanliness in front of you. You have supported the fight against corruption by hard decisions such as notebooks. You have a very big role in creating honest and transparent systems through Digital India. That is, you have saved every scheme from becoming a government. Another request is from you, many such holy places have been built here in Delhi in the past three to four years, associated with the country's heritage, the memory of the country's heroes, Where you go you will learn a lot. Some of you may have come to these places. But still you want to tell about them. Just like recently the Revolution Temple has been inaugurated in the Red Fort. This revolution is dedicated to the temple Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. When you go there, you will also find out what the relation between the Azad Hind Fauj and the Red Fort is. Similarly, last year the National Police Memorial has also been released. This monument has been constructed in memory of thousands of police and security forces who have been martyred to maintain law and order in the internal areas of the country. You can also go to the Parinirvana site of Baba Saheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar, built on all Alipur road. This memorial has been built in memory of thousands of police and security forces. You can also go to the Parinirvana site of Baba Saheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar, built on all Alipur road. This memorial has been built in memory of thousands of police and security forces. You can also go to the Parinirvana site of Baba Saheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar, built on all Alipur road.
Companions, this place is becoming the new identity of Delhi. Sardar Patel's new monument is made in Delhi. The digital museum has been built. In these places, you will find information related to history, associated with many great personalities, you will get a new energy to work for the country and work for the society. I am confident that with this energy New India will have a new passion and strength. In the coming month another nazarana and an inspiration site are going to be delivered to the country after a long wait. After the independence, our valiant men, our army soldiers, a national level war memorial waiting for the country were waiting for the country, the jawans of the country were waiting. Natural waiting for the brave families, he was also stuck for a long time. This work should have been years ago. But after coming into the government, we took the decision, now it is on full and in February month the country's heroes, Sacrifices who have given the highest sacrifice, have given supreme sacrifice; a national level war memorial of India has almost been drawn in memory of such heroes. In the month of February, he will also have an opportunity to make a public offer and will be privileged to honor our brave soldiers of the country. I once again greet you all very much. This opportunity changes our thinking, this month-long occupation takes one kind of our thinking to the national level. In every thought, what do we think for our country? It gives this opportunity to think only in the context of the country, not only its village, its neighborhood, its caste, its own community. Growing up of any country, moving forward depends on the fact that there are people in the form of unity in the social system. The second basis for the progress of that nation is so optimistic, How much is full of aspirations. A society dipped in a trough of despair can never take themselves up or take up the country. Today I say with pride that 100 million Indians are filled with new hopes and aspirations, and due to this I feel that my country will be crossing new heights. Dreams will come true. And the dreams of freedom by which the freedom fighters fought for freedom, now the time to complete those dreams has started now. Come, let us all sing together and recite Bharat Mata's cheer, give those dreams a new energy, give new power, make new resolutions. Speak with me - And because of this I feel that my country will be crossing new heights. Dreams will come true. And the dreams of freedom by which the freedom fighters fought for freedom, now the time to complete those dreams has started now. Come, let us all sing together and recite Bharat Mata's cheer, give those dreams a new energy, give new power, make new resolutions. Speak with me - And because of this I feel that my country will be crossing new heights. Dreams will come true. And the dreams of freedom by which the freedom fighters fought for freedom, now the time to complete those dreams has started now. Come, let us all sing together and recite Bharat Mata's cheer, give those dreams a new energy, give new power, make new resolutions. Speak with me -
Long live Mother India.
Long live Mother India.
Long live Mother India.s
Thanks a lot.